---
layout: document
category: development
published: true
title: "Plugin user-help guidelines"
tags:
  - development 
  - plugins
  - user help
  - guidelines
---

"ToC":http://docs.textpattern.io ⨠ "Development":http://docs.textpattern.io/development/ ⨠ **Plugin user-help guidelines**

h1. Plugin user-help guidelines

Use this template and associated guidelines when writing your plugin's user instructions.[1] Doing so will make it easier for you, as well result in plugin help that's complete, consistent across plugins, and more usable (intuitive and easy to navigate).

fn1. Derived from "this forum discussion":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=25327.

On this page:

* "Suggested help sections":#sec1
* "The template":#sec2
* "Template guidelines":#sec3
* "Textile formatting":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Suggested sections

This is the full set of sections for structuring your help file. You may not need all of these, but you should not need more than this. (Items in **bold** are what you must use no matter what.)

# **Summary and version details**
# Table of contents (use if you have more than three sections, or your sections are long)
# **List of features** (if you don't have many features, make this part of your summary)
# **Minimum requirements** (even if no requirements, say that)
# Installation (when differs from standard installation procedure)
# Uninstallation (when differs from standard uninstallation procedure)
# Tags (along with attribute descriptions and examples)
# Exposed functions (for class plugins)
# Global variables
# Plugin events
# Examples
# **License**
# **Author contact**

Obviously, if your plugin provides a tag or more, you will include sections 7 and 11 in your help file (and perhaps 8–10), and thus a Table of Contents too.

h2(#sec2). The template

The following code block is the plugin help template, which takes into account the entire suite of sections indicated above. Copy everything in the block, paste it into your editor, and remove the sections you don't need, if any. Nothing else but text editing should be needed.[1]

fn1. All Textile formatting is provided already. All you have to do is fill in your content in the right locations. *Do not* use inline CSS styling of your own in help information. Allow the presentation provided in the admin-side theme to work on its own. All you need to do is use the indicated Textile as clarified.

<pre>
h1. prefix_plugin_name

p. A brief summary of what the plugin does.

p. *Version:* current version number goes here.

h2. Table of contents

# "List of features":#sec01
# "Minimum requirements":#sec02
# "Installation":#sec03
# "Uninstallation":#sec04
# "Plugin tags":#sec05
# "Exposed functions":#sec06
# "Global variables":#sec07
# "Plugin events":#sec08
# "Examples":#sec09
# "License":#sec10
# "Author contact":#sec11

h2(#sec01). List of features

* Feature 1
* Feature 2
* Feature 3

h2(#sec02). Minimum requirements

p. This plugin has the following minimum requirements (and/or dependencies):

* Textpattern 4.x
* Plugin dependency 1
* Plugin dependency 2

h2(#sec03). Installation

p. Any special installation instructions.

h2(#sec04). Uninstallation

p. Any special uninstallation instructions.

h2(#sec05). Plugin tags

h3. prefix_tag_name1

p. Description of the plugin tag and how it is intended to be used.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

h3. prefix_tag_name2

p. Description of the plugin tag and how it is intended to be used.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

h2(#sec06). Exposed functions

h3(tag). my_plugin_func

p. This function will do foo or bar.

p. %(atts-name)Return Value% %(atts-type)return_value_type%
Description of the function return value.

p. %arg_name% %arg_value_type%
Argument description.

h2(#sec07). Global variables

h3. $my_plugin_global

p. This array is set during _blah_ and is false on failure.

h2(#sec08). Plugin events

h3. my_plugin.event

p. This event is called when blah happens.

h2(#sec09). Examples

h3. Example 1

p. A large example that puts it all together or examples to go with each tag (in which case it is probably better to include it with the tag above).

bc. Example code

h3. Example 2

p. A large example that puts it all together or examples to go with each tag (in which case it is probably better to include it with the tag above).

bc. Example code

h2(#sec10). Licence

p. State any special license information here.

h2(#sec11). Author contact

p. Developer contact details, or links to where one can get more help or make suggestions.
</pre>

h2(#sec3). Template guidelines

Clarifying notes about using the template:

**Prefix**. In the first line, @h1. prefix_plugin_name@, "prefix" will be your "plugin developer prefix":http://docs.textpattern.io/development/registered-textpattern-developer-prefixes.

**Features list**. If your plugin isn't complex (doesn't have a lot of features), you may merge the "Features list" section into your summary by simply saying in the summary what your plugin will do, rather than making an unnecessary list.

**Minimum requirements**. If your plugin has no minimum requirements, include this section anyway and simply say "None." This makes it clear rather than enigmatic.

**Installation/Uninstallation**. Only include these sections if they provide any instruction _different_ from standard installation procedure. If not, leave them out.

**Plugin tags**. The @h3.@ subsection headings for tags will be the plugin prefix and name without surrounding tag syntax (i.e., use *abc_tag_name*, not @<txp:abc_tag_name />@).

**Examples**. Ensure your @h3.@ subsection headings for examples are clearly indicative of what the example is about, as much as possible. Your example intros will help make this clear, of course, but for scanning reasons, headings should be informative too.

h2(#sec4). Textile formatting

The template already includes the necessary "Textile":http://txstyle.org/. We assume you already know what Textile is if you're using Textpattern (if not, you should get on that), but following are the basic things to look for in the template. 

**Headers h1-h3:**

* @h1.@ is for the help page title (the plugin's name).
* @h2.@ is for main sections of the help page, and include ID's to enable the in-page Table of Contents lists (e.g., @h2(#sec1).@).
* @h3.@ is for subsections, and these should not have ID's or classes.

**Paragraph copy:**

* @p.@ begins every new paragraph. (This is only required in plugin help, not  when using Textpattern itself.)
* %(highlight)important statement here% is an inline @span@ having @class="highlight"@. Use this when you want to notate something important within a paragraph.

**Lists:**

Ordered...

<pre>
# A number list example
# Item 2
# Item 3
</pre>

Numbered...

<pre>
* A bullet list example
* Item 2
* Item 3
</pre>

**Code:**

Inline code is noted by surrounding the code with 'commercial ats'...

<pre>
@<txp:tag_name />@
</pre>

Multi-line block code, if it has no blank lines, begins with @bc.@: 

<pre>
bc. code...
code...
code...
no blank lines
</pre>

Or with @bc..@ (note the double full-stops) if blank lines exist:

<pre>
bc.. code...
code...

code...
</pre>