---
layout: document
category: extension
published: true
title: "Extensions"
tags:
  - extension
  - admin-side
  - region
  - plugins
---

"Main ToC":http://docs.textpattern.io тиа **"Textpattern administration":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/** тиа **Extensions**

h1. Extensions

The **Extensions** region is not a core region you see out-of-the-box. It appears when you add certain plugins that make use of it. Plugins will do this when they provide configurable functionality specific to their design and use.

When you upload such a plugin and activate it, the **Extensions** region appears on all admin-side views _except_ when you're in context of the **Plugins** panel itself. This ensures buggy (e.g., outdated) plugins can be deactivated safely even if the rest of the site manifests problems due to the buggy plugin.

h2. Plugins that use the Extensions region

When you upload a plugin that uses the **Extensions** region, a secondary panel option will appear under the region that provides the configurable elements for that plugin. The following table names the plugins that will do this, and their correcponding panel labels:[1]

notextile. <div class="tabular-data">
	
|_. Plugin name |_. Resulting panel | Plugin function |
| "adi_notes":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=27957 | ? | ? |
| "asy_jpcache":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=8352 | ? | ? |
| "bas_lightbox":http://lab.samisdat.org/bas-lightbox | ? | ? |
| "glz_custom_fields":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=23996 | ? | ? |
| "ied_plugin_composer":http://textpattern.org/plugins/588/ied_plugin_composer | ? | A powerful plugin for those interested in "plugin development":http://docs.textpattern.io/plugins/. (Now maintained by "smd".) |
| "msd_admin_colorpicker":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26742 | ? | ? |
| "msd_google_map":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=30493 | ? | ? |
| "rah_change_passwords":http://rahforum.biz/plugins/rah_change_passwords | ? | ? |
| "rah_post_versions":http://rahforum.biz/plugins/rah_post_versions | ? | ? |
| "rah_tabtor":http://rahforum.biz/plugins/rah_tabtor | ? | ? |
| "rss_admin_db_manager":http://www.wilshireone.com/textpattern-plugins/rss_admin_db_manager | ? | ? |
| "rss_article_edit":http://www.wilshireone.com/textpattern-plugins/rss_article_edit | ? | ? |
| "sed_plugin_help_viewer":http://txp-plugins.netcarving.com/plugins/plugin-help-viewer | ? | ? |
| "smd_admin_themes":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=30952 | ? | ? |
| "smd_bio":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=31496 | ? | Extends core user account data. (Usually used in relation to smd_user_manager.) |
| "smd_tags":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=28621 | ? | ? |
| "smd_where_used":http://textpattern.org/plugins/984/smd_where_used | ? | ? |
| "tru_tags":http://textpattern.org/plugins/584/tru_tags | ? | ? |
| "upm_image":http://textpattern.org/plugins/597/upm_image | ? | ? |
| "upm_img_popper":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=21459 | ? | ? |

notextile. </div>

fn1. This list may not be complete, nor may all of the indicated plugins be supported anymore (we will try to remove them here if not). It's up to you to research them and ask questions in the forum about their viability before installing and trying to use them.
