\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop I set this page up, to get some input, order ideas and then start coding  - Bastian 16:02, 25 February 2006 (GMT)

h3(sectionedit1#what_should_this_plugin_do). What should this plugin do

* On frontend the mp3 are played with an Flashplayer.
* In the feeds there are included as enclosure
* On write-tab MP3 can bee selected out of a drop-down-list
* Even large MP3 can bee uploaded within txp-backend

h3(sectionedit2#frontend). Frontend

* Flashplayer is displayed insite a form
* Archive Playlists by date, section or cats

h4(#flashplayer). Flashplayer

This "Flash_MP3_Player":http://www.jeroenwijering.com/?item=Flash_MP3_Player by Jeroen Wijering seems to bee a good one. But its not free for commerical uses.

h3(sectionedit3#feeds). Feeds

At the moment there is no direct way, to include enclosure into the feeds. But "zem":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=78251#p78251 is working on using templates for feeds in 4.1 Templated feeds should be used for podcasting.

An alternative could be deliver the complete feed form the plugin

h3(sectionedit4#backend). Backend

Some requirements

There will be relation between podcast files and their post by use of the custom fields. The plugin will also use the "getID3()":http://getid3.sourceforge.net class to obtain/update ID3 information.

h4(#mp3_tab). MP3 Tab

* Handle uploading even large MP3's
* Editing ID3-Tags
* Categorize and/or tag MP3's

h4(#write_tab). Write Tab

* Select MP3 from a drop-down list
* Use customfield

