---
layout: document
category: Administration
published: true
title: "Diagnostics"
tags:
  - Diagnostics
  - Pre-flight checks
  - Error messages
  - Low info
  - High info
  - PHP functions
---

"Main ToC":http://docs.textpattern.io ⨠ **"Textpattern administration":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/** ⨠ **Admin** ⨠ **Diagnostics*

h1. Diagnostics

The **Diagnostics** panel is important for troubleshooting problems with your Textpattern installation, such as misconfigurations you might discover when installing or upgrading to a new version. The panel can also be useful for troubleshooting functional problems that you may have introduced by accident when extending the system, modifying the __.htaccess__ file, or some other slight of hand.

The **Diagnostics** panel is composed of two display regions: **Pre-flight checks** and **Diagnostic info**. Though the latter comes after the former in the panel, it may be useful to talk about them in reverse here.

On this page:

* "Diagnostic info display":#sec1
* "Pre-flight checks":#sec2
* "Diagnostic reporting on PHP functions":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Diagnostic info display

The actual diagnostics information is displayed in the **Diagnostics info** region. The volume of details displayed may be set to "Low" (the default) or "High", which you can toggle between using the **Detail** selection control at bottom of the info display field.

h3. Low info display

Low diagnostics info begins with a set of data values about your installation and server technology. A few value descriptions are provided here for general understanding, but most of the data items should be obvious.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

|_. Data item |_. What it tells you |
| Textpattern version: | the version you currently have installed |
| Last update: | the date/time you last updated your installation |
| Document root: | path to directory where Textpattern is installed |
| $path_to_site: | server path to directory where Textpattern is installed |
| Textpattern path: | path to your installation's configuration directory |
| Permanent link mode: | how you've configured your URLs to appear |
| upload_tmp_dir: | the absolute path of __tmp__ directory on web server |
| Temporary directory path: | the path of __tmp__ directory relative to web root |
| Site URL: | your domain and TLD (i.e. domain.tld); corresponds with setting in **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** |
| PHP version: | version number of your PHP install |
| GD Graphics Library: | |
| Server TZ: | your web server's time zone |
| Server local time: | the local date/time you have set in **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** |
| DST enabled?: | if Daylight Savings Time is enabled ("0"=no, "1"=yes); corresponds with setting in **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** |
| Automatically adjust DST setting?: | ("0"=no, "1"=yes); corresponds with setting in **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** |
| Time zone: | your time zone in GMT; corresponds with setting in **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** |
| MySQL: | version number and build of your MySQL database server |
| Locale: | the language and character set you have configured |
| Server: | web server type (e.g. Apache) |
| PHP server API: | |
| RFC 2616 headers: | |
| Server OS: | |
| Active plugins: | a comma-separated list of all plugins and their version numbers you have installed and are turned *ON* |
| Admin-side theme: | name and version number of active admin-side theme |

notextile. </div>

The installation and server data is followed by the contents of your __.htaccess__ file (from the installation directory). For purposes here we show the "file contents from the current version code":https://github.com/textpattern/textpattern/blob/master/.htaccess, which is the part between the two dotted lines below:

bc.. .htaccess file contents:
------------------------
#DirectoryIndex index.php index.html

#Options +FollowSymLinks
#Options -Indexes
#ErrorDocument 403 default

<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
	RewriteEngine On
	#RewriteBase /relative/web/path/

	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -f [OR]
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
	RewriteRule ^(.+) - [PT,L]

	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !=/favicon.ico
	RewriteRule ^(.*) index.php

	RewriteCond %{HTTP:Authorization}  !^$
	RewriteRule .* - [E=REMOTE_USER:%{HTTP:Authorization}]
</IfModule>

#php_value register_globals 0

# SVG
<IfModule mod_mime.c>
	AddType image/svg+xml  svg svgz
	AddEncoding gzip       svgz
</IfModule>
------------------------

p. Over time your __.htaccess__ file will change as you add your own <i>mod_rewrite</i> rules, or whatever, and the changes will reflect in the diagnostics info display.

h3. High info display

High diagnostics info display includes the Low info above, but adds the following information.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

|_. Data item |_. What it tells you |
| Charset (default/config): | if you don't see a lot of "UTF-8" values on these "character_set" items, you might want ask yourself why not |
| character_set_client: | |
| character_set_connection: | |
| character_set_database: | |
| character_set_filesystem: | |
| character_set_results: | |
| character_set_server: | |
| character_set_system: | |
| character_sets_dir: | |
| "n" Tables: | "n" being the number of Textpattern tables that exist in your installation (a default install has 17, anything more is from plugins or other extensions you've added); the value also indicates if tables are "OK" or not |
| "n" Custom fields: |"n" being the number of custom fields; value also indicates name of all counted fields |
| PHP extensions: | list of extension names/versions your web host has enabled |
| pretext_data: | value is a piece of code; useful for developers to evaluate |
| {/textpattern files, not shown here} | list of Textpattern configuration files from the /textpattern directory; indicates file path, revision number, and MD5 Checksum hash number |

notextile. </div>

The last item above reflects a long list of Textpattern configuration files which makes up the end of the High info data shown.

h2(#sec2). Pre-flight checks

The **Pre-flight checks** display is where diagnostic feedback messages appear. There are four kinds of feedback messages: success (green), information (blue), warning (yellow), and error (red)..

h3. Success (green)

There is only one green message:

%(success)All checks passed!%

This message displays when you successfully address and/or troubleshoot all, blue, yellow, and red feedback messages that might exist. _Go green!_

h3. Information (blue)

Blue messages are informational only. They make you aware of something so you're informed about it, not because it's a functional problem you need to troubleshoot, necessarily.

There are three possible blue messages:

* %(information)New Textpattern version n.n.n "available for download":http://textpattern.com/download.% -- This is letting you know that you're not using the latest stable release (where "n.n.n" is the latest version number). The first data item in the **"Diagnostics info":#sec1** display mentioned earlier will indicate your current working version. This blue message is not saying you have to update your installation, but it's good practice to do so for "security":http://docs.textpattern.io/security/ reasons, if nothing else.
* %(information)Clean URLs are only supported on Apache, use at your own risk.% -- This only appears if you're _not_ using an Apache web server. The assumption is that you know what you're doing so it's not a real warning (yellow) or error (red) message. If the assumption is true, you can ignore this message.
* %(information)File uploads are disabled% -- This appears if the permissions you have set on your __files__ folder in the installation tree is read only. The assumption is that you've consciously made this choice, so you can ignore this message. If you want the message to go away, make the files folder writable.[1]

h3. Warning (yellow)

Yellow (warning) messages are not critical, per se, and sometimes can even be cascading[2] or false.[3] But when warnings are accurate, they mean something specific needs resolved in order to work correctly.

There are several possible warning messages. Where no description is given below, you are advised to look at the UI information for the warnings by clicking the "Information" icon at right of the **Pre-flight check** items:

* path_to_site_missing %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* %(warning)DNS lookup failed: {site URL}% -- This means the "Site URL" preference you have entered in the **"Basic preferences":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** panel is probably incorrect somehow. Check the value and make sure it's entered exactly like this, @domain.tld@, using your domain name and TLD extension.
* %(warning)Site URL preference might be incorrect: {site URL}% -- Similar to the previous message, this is suggesting the "Site URL" as set in the preferences tab does not match the actual URL you use to visit your website.
* %(warning)Clean URL test failed.% -- This is not necessarily an error, and could appear for different reasons. Check the help information. It could be caused by the PHP configuration setting of @allow_url_fopen@, or some other hosting issue, or it might go away by fixing other warning messages.
* %(warning)Site URL has a trailing slash% --
* %(warning){path} still exists% -- This means you need to remove the "setup" folder from the web server. The path to the folder respective to your installation will be shown.
* %(warning)image directory is read-only% -- This means permissions on your images folder needs changed before you can add any images to it; change permissions to chmod 755 or 711.[1]
* no_temp_dir %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* warn_mail_unavailable %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* %(warning)Your version of PHP has known security vulnerabilities. Please turn <code>register_globals</code> off or update to a newer PHP version.% --
* %(warning)Some Textpattern files have been modified% --
* %(warning)ou are running a development version of Textpattern on a live server.% --
* %(warning)The following PHP functions (which may be necessary to run Textpattern) are disabled on your server...% -- If you see this message, it will be followed by a number of PHP functions that are disabled on your web server. Textpattern needs certain functions enabled to work correctly, while other functions, if disabled, can be ignored. See section below, "Diagnostics reporting on PHP functions":#sec3, for more about which function are needed or not.
* %(warning)Site URL preference might be incorrect% -- This could either mean you do not have the right “Site URL” path set in "Basic preferences":basic-prefs-panel.textile, or, in the case of upgrading, you still need to update your __index.php__ and/or __.htaccess__ files (see next message). (This could also be a false error. For example, symlinks cannot be correctly recognised, so you might get this error even if there's no true problem. Unless you are experiencing real technical issues, you shouldn't worry too much about this feedback message if it doesn't go away. Understandably that is not satisfying advice.)
* %(warning)Clean URL data test failed% --
* %(warning)Clean URL test failed.% --

fn1. **Folder permissions:** A chmod setting of 755 or 711 should work to make a folder writable, and is secure. A lot of people have trouble setting these values, however, and need to use a chmod of 777, which has "security implications":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26613. The discrepancy is due to how Apache directives are configured on the web server, which means you may have to ask your server administrator or web host to change the directives. If they won't do it, it might be time to find a new web host, because no web host should force you to operate your site insecurely.

fn2. **Cascading errors:** Sometimes the existence of one yellow or red issue can be the cause of another, so be sure to reload the Diagnostics panel as you resolve each yellow or red issue; you might find it eliminates another in the process.

fn3. **False errors:** On rare occasions, yellow and red messages have been known to appear but not go away when addressed as instructed by their help information. Textpattern developers have indicated this can happen in odd situations and is almost always a false warning when it does, meaning there isn't anything to worry about. If you ever have this problem and can't seem to resolve it, post about it in the "Troubleshooting forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=67 and someone will try to help.

h3. Error (red)

Red messages mean something critical appears to be wrong and you need to troubleshoot it immediately.

Possible red messages include:

* php_version_required %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* %(error)/index.php is inaccessible% -- This suggests your __index.php__ file is not available, is not the right version, or that your "Site URL" is set wrong in "Basic preferences":basic-prefs-panel.textile. It could also mean the __index.php__ file was not updated for whatever reason during a recent upgrade. Update the file using the one in the "current Textpattern repository":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/current/ and refresh diagnostics.
* %(error).htaccess file is missing% -- This concerns the __.htaccess__ file, but doesn't necessarily mean the file is missing; the message usually appears if you are trying to use one of the “clean” URL settings, and you have one of the previous diagnostic issues with the wrong path or have a missing __index.php__ file. Take care of those issues first and this message may disappear. If that does not work, then definitely check to see if you even have an __.htaccess__ file. If the file is there, then either replace it from the "current Textpattern repository":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/current/, or click the help link next to this particular message and replace the contents of your existing __.htaccess__ file with the indicated rewrite rules in the help dialog.
* %(error)@$path_to_site@ is inaccessible.% -- This means either one or both of the previous diagnostics are a problem. Follow the troubleshooting procedures for them accordingly, and this problem will likely go away.
* %(error){dirtype} is not writable% --
* %(error)Apache module mod_rewrite is not installed.% --
* %(error)Old placeholder file is in the way% -- This likely means you have created an actual folder in your server file tree that shares a name with a __section__ you created in the **Sections** panel, or visa versa. This can break your site. You need to rename or remove one or the other.
* %(error)Missing files% --
* mysql_table_errors %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* %(error)Temporary directory path and Plugin cache directory path should **not*** match.% -- This means paths to your plugin cache and __tmp__ locations are the same. Neither should be web accessible, but if you set them to the same location, a temp file could overwrite a plugin, and that would be bad. Create a different folder location for your plugin cache.

h2(#sec3). Diagnostic reporting on PHP functions

Textpattern requires certain PHP functions to be enabled for your website to work properly, or to work at all. Your website administrator or web host will be in control of these, and may have certain functions turned off for "security" reasons.

Diagnostics can tell you if any of these necessary functions are disabled. You'll see this pre-flight check warning: %(warning)The following PHP functions (which may be necessary to run Textpattern) are disabled on your server...%.

If so, compare the indicated functions with those in the table below to see if any match and thus need enabled.

h3. Functions used by Textpattern

The following functions are used by Textpattern. If your diagnostics reports any of these as _disabled_, you need to get in touch with your web server administrator or web host and explain why you need them turned on (for your Textpattern site to work). Point them to this page, if you want. If they won't help you, find a more suitable web host, because there is no real reason to disable these functions.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

|_. Name |_. Use |
| apache_get_modules | Helps determine whether clean urls could be used at setup, and for diagnostics info. |
| apache_get_version | Helps provide diagnostics info regarding clean urls. |
| parse_ini_file | Language features, even if English is used. |
| php_sapi_name | Determines whether PHP is running as an Apache module or CGI. Used for sending header information appropriate to the platform. |
| php_uname | Provides diagnostics info regarding the server’s operating system. |
| set_time_limit | Makes sure PHP does not timeout before installation, updates (including language string changes), and file downloads can be completed. |

notextile. </div>

h3. Functions not used by Textpattern

These functions are _not_ used by Textpattern.[4] If diagnostics reports one or more of these functions as disabled, you may safely ignore the message, because they do not affect Textpattern's operation in any way.

* apache_child_terminate
* apache_getenv
* apache_note
* apache_setenv
* chgrp
* chown
* close_log
* debugger_off
* debugger_on
* define_syslog_variables
* diskfreespace
* disk_total_space
* dl
* error_log
* escapeshellarg
* escapeshellcmd
* exec
* get_current_user
* getrusage
* highlight_file
* imagefilltoborder
* ini_alter
* ini_restore
* leak
* link
* listen
* mysql_pconnect
* openlog
* pack
* passthru
* pclose
* pfsockopen
* phpinfo
* popen
* proc_close
* proc_get_status
* proc_nice
* proc_open
* proc_terminate
* putenv
* readlink
* set_socket_blocking
* shell_exec
* show_source
* socket_… (i.e. socket_bind)
* symlink
* syslog
* system
* system_exec
* virtual
* wget

fn4. If you discover any functions named in your feedback message that are not listed above, create a new topic in the "Troubleshooting forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=67 and post the "High" diagnostics info so someone can help you determine if the function is necessary or not.
