---
layout: document
category: Administration
published: true
title: "Extensions"
tags:
  - Extension
  - Admin-side
  - Region
  - Plugins
---

h1. Extensions

The **Extensions** region is not an out-of-the-box feature. It appears to the higher "user roles":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/user-roles-and-privileges if any of the admin-side plugins that employ it are installed. 

When relevant, the **Extensions** region will be seen in the administration navigation from all admin-side views _except_ when you are in context of the **Plugins** panel, even for the administrator. This behaviour ensures being able to safely deactivate and/or remove outdated or buggy plugins if they are causing problems. To access the **Extensions** panels from the **Plugins** panel, click anywhere else in the admin-side navigation first and the **Extensions* region will appear.

h2. Plugins that use the Extensions region

When you upload a plugin that uses the **Extensions** region, a new panel option will appear under the region that provides the associated functionality for that plugin. The following table names the plugins that will do this, and their corresponding panel labels:[1]

notextile. <div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

|_. Plugin |_. Extensions panel label[2] |_. Plugin function |
| "arc_redirect":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=36705 | arc_redirect | ? |
| "adi_notes":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=27957 | ? | ? |
| "asy_jpcache":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=8352 | ? | ? |
| "bas_lightbox":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=14748 | ? | ? |
| "glz_custom_fields":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=23996 | ? | ? |
| "ied_plugin_composer":http://textpattern.org/plugins/588/ied_plugin_composer | ? | (Now maintained by "smd".) A powerful plugin for those interested in "plugin development":http://docs.textpattern.io/plugins/. |
| "msd_admin_colorpicker":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26742 | ? | ? |
| "msd_google_map":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=30493 | ? | ? |
| "rah_change_passwords":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=28696 | ? | Enables Publishers to reset anyone's password, and without sending password details via email. (A security enhancement, as well takes the password-change responsibility out of the hands of the individual account holder, solely.) |
| "rah_post_versions":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=33855 | ? | Version control for __articles__, __forms__, and __pages__. |
| "rah_tabtor":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=34815 | ? | Allows you to move a panel from one region of the admin-side to another. |
| "rss_admin_db_manager":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=10395 | ? | Provides a basic UI for your MySQL database, to do things like create dump files easier. |
| "rss_article_edit":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=13720 | ? | ? |
| "sed_plugin_help_viewer":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=16473 | ? | ? |
| "smd_admin_themes":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=30952 | ? | ? | ? |
| "smd_bio":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=31496 | ? | Bio config | Extends core user account data. (Usually used in relation to smd_user_manager.) |
| "smd_redirect":https://github.com/Bloke/smd_redirect | Redirects | Provides an convenient means to redirect retired content. Can be done at the URL, __category__, or __section__ level. |
| "smd_tags":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=28621 | ? | ? |
| "smd_where_used":http://textpattern.org/plugins/984/smd_where_used | ? | Where used | Provides a search mechanism to find where any text string is used in all of your __sections__, __pages__, __forms__, __styles__, and __articles__. |
| "tru_tags":http://textpattern.org/plugins/584/tru_tags | ? | ? |
| "upm_image":http://textpattern.org/plugins/597/upm_image | ? | ? |
| "upm_img_popper":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=21459 | ? | ? |

notextile. </div>

fn1. This list may not be complete, nor may all of the indicated plugins be supported anymore (we will try to remove them here if not). It's up to you to research them and ask questions in the forum about their viability before installing and trying to use them.

fn2. Plugin developers should follow Textpattern's "editorial style guidelines":http://docs.textpattern.io/brand/editorial-style-guidelines for UI elements to ensure their plugins elements have consistent appearance with Textpattern's core presentation. With respect to UI titles, headings, and labels this means 1) not using abbreviations, and 2) using sentence-case (not capital-case or "code_case"). In the table above, for example, the labels "arc_redirect", "Plugin Composer", and "Bio config" should be "Redirects" (or "URL redirects"), "Plugin composer", and "Bio configuration", respectively. You are encouraged to let plugin developers know (by posting in the appropriate "plugin support threads":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=79) when the appearance of their plugins' UI elements are not conventional in any way.
