---
layout: document
category: Administration
published: true
title: "Forms"
tags:
  - Forms
  - Snippets
  - Partials
---

h1. Forms

The **Forms** panel contains an editing field, a list of existing Forms organized by rough categories, and a tag builder in the left column to help you construct form content.

h2(#sec1). What are forms?

**Forms** are akin to snippets, includes, partials, and the like that define discrete _packages_ of information that can be inserted into web page templates, or nested into other forms that are in turn _pulled_ into web page templates. They are not files, per se, but similar in concept to files, having their own name (ID) and content. The content in a form can be any combination of text, HTML markup, Textpattern tags, or tags for third-party "**Plugins**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/plugins-panel you might use. 

The content can be a single word, to the HTML framework of an entire webpage template, to everything in between or something different altogether. But forms are generally most practical when scoped to repeatable, semantic regions of a page template (header, main area, side column, footer...), or to functional blocks within those regions (navigation menu, sign-up form, widget, footer list, etc). There's no right or wrong way to design forms, but as you get more familiar with Textpattern, you'll discover the optimal patterns to use, as well as how to name forms so they aren't confusing when you have many. Don't be surprised to adjust your architecture over time as you learn.

h2(#sec2). Out-of-the-box forms  

Several forms come with Textpattern out-of-the-box, only enough to provide the minimal publishing functionality needed in the default installation. The default forms, and presumably those you end up creating, are organized by type to help keep them straight.[1] The type groupings used to organize forms are: *Article*, *Miscellaneous*, *Comment*, *Category*, *File*, *Links*, and *Section*. You'll only a given type in the panel when there's a form assigned to it.

Form types and the associated default forms are:

Article

 
fn1. The form naming convention you adopt will also help with form organization within a given form type list.

, which is inserted into web templates dynamically when the forms are called for a given web page. 

, are known as are one of the six “building blocks” described in the "textpattern_semantic_model":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern_semantic_model. 

Textpattern Forms are predefined portions of text, Textpattern Tags, and/or HTML, which collectively define how content should be formatted and displayed. Textpattern forms are easily created in the Forms panel. Forms are used by the Tags that call them, via the form="" attribute. Once you have a good grasp of Tags, Forms, and the relationship between, you'll begin to realize the seeming endless possibilities of how to customize your website's architecture and content.
An Example

<txp:article form="single" listform="default" />

This snippet dictates that the article should be displayed with the "default" form when the section is displaying a list of articles, but will use the "Single" form when displaying the individual article. You may modify this Form to your own liking, or keep this one and simply create a new one of your own.

The default contents of "single":

<h3 class="entry-title"><txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink></h3>
	<p class="published"><txp:posted /></p>

<div class="entry-content">
<txp:body />
</div>

As you can see, this Article form is composed of four different tags: title, permlink, posted and body. If this form was used to output an article, it would result in something like the following (X)HTML:

<h3 class="entry-title"><a href="http://your-website.com/article/my-article-title" title="Permanent link to this article">My Article Title</a></h3>
	<p class="published">3 May 2005</p>

<div class="entry-content">
<p>The full body of the article text.</p>
</div>



h3(sectionedit1#creating_a_new_form). Creating a New Form

To create a new Form, click the _Create new form_ button at the top of the right column. The Form editor will be empty. Before working on the Form content right away, it's best to first give it an unique name, assign a Form type and save it, all using the controls under the Form editor.

You can then go back to editing the Form's content, either by hand, or by pasting in some starter code from an existing Form and editing it as needed. Be sure to save your changes as you progress to not risk losing anything.

All Forms need to have unique names and a Form type association before saving them. should classify it according to the kind of _Form_ it will be. There are seven form types: _article_, _category_, _comment_, _file_, _link_, _misc_ (miscellaneous), and _section_. The form type you use is not vitally important, the purpose of assigning forms a type is to allow Textpattern's tag builder to help you easily find the form you want to use. Once you've named and classified your form, you can begin building it.

h4(#form_types_explained). Form Types Explained

When creating a form, it must be assigned to a “Type,” which is available via a dropdown selection box under the _Name_ field. There are currently seven form types: _article_, _category_, _comment_, _file_, _link_, _misc_ (miscellaneous), and _section_.

Form types have almost no inherent semantic but aid solely as a means of organization for the designer/user. One notable exception: _article_ type forms are the only ones listed in the _override form_ dropdown on the write screen.

The category and section types are intended to be used in conjunction with "category_list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category_list and "section_list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section_list, respectively, as a value to the form attribute, along the lines of

bc. <nowiki><txp:section_list form="foo" /></nowiki>


. They serve the same use case as the form attributes for articles do.

See also:

* "forms_explained":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained
* "default_forms":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=default_forms

