---
layout: document
category: Administration
published: true
title: "Textpattern administration"
tags:
  - Administration
  - Admin-side
  - Panels
  - Configuration
  - Site structure
  - Site management
---

h1. Textpattern administration

The administration side of Textpattern (often called "admin-side") is where the site administrator -- and any "users":admin/users-panel having sufficient rights -- configures and manages the website's content, architecture, presentation, and behaviour (excluding what might need done via the web or database servers).

On this page:

* "Login location":#sec1
* "Admin-side organization":#sec2
* "Recommended steps after installing":#sec3
** "Set default language":#sec3-1
** "Configure site identity and publishing behaviour":#sec3-2
** "Troubleshoot diagnostics":#sec3-3
** "Build your architecture":#sec3-4
* "Recommended steps after upgrading":#sec4
** "Updating language packs":#sec4-1
** "Check diagnostics, again":#sec4-1
* "Changing default login panel":#sec5

h2(#sec1). Login location

The typical admin login location for a new install of Textpattern is at __domain.tld/textpattern__.[1] If you install Textpattern in a subdirectory, the login location would reflect that as __domain.tld/subdirectory/textpattern__.

fn1. See "Textpattern security":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/security if you're worried about the login location being common knowledge.

h2(#sec2). Administration regions and panels

The administration side is organized into three primary regions: **Content**, **Presentation**, and **Admin**. Each region has a set of working panels, one of which serves as the default for when the primary region link is clicked.

There is a fourth region, **Extensions**, that does not exist out-of-the-box, but it's worth describing here along with the core regions because you are likely to see it eventually. 

h3(#sec2-1). Content

The **Content** region of the administration side has seven panels out-of-the-box, of which the **Write** panel is the default.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

| |_. What the panel provides you |
| **Articles** | A table listing of all articles, and the ability to open one in full-edit mode in context of the **Write** panel. |
| **Categories** | Functionality to create and manage topic categories for articles, images, links, and files. |
| **Comments**[2] | A table of all article comments received, and functionality to manage edit them. |
| **Files** | A table listing of all files uploaded and functionality to manage them. |
| **Images** | A table listing of all images uploaded, and functionality to manage them. |
| **Links** | A table listing of all links uploaded and functionality to manage them. |
| **Write** (default) | Article editing fields and controls; is the primary content editor in Textpattern. |

notextile. </div>

fn2. In Textpattern 4.6, when the "Accept comments?" preference is set to "No" in the **Preferences** panel, all comments functionality throughout the administration side will be hidden in the UI and the **Comments** panel link will be removed from the list of panel options in the **Content** region. This helps keep unwanted functionality from being a distraction. The comments functionality all comes back again if the preference is changed to "Yes". 

h3(#sec2-2). Presentation

The **Presentation** region of the administration side has four panels out-of-the-box, of which the **Pages** panel is the default.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

| |_. What the panel provides you |
| **Forms**[3] | A list of forms by type (Textpattern forms, not web forms for submitting data) and functionality to create and manage them. The "default" **Article** form type displays by default. |
| **Pages** (default) | A list of HTML page templates and functionality to create and manage them. The "default" page displays by default. |
| **Sections** | A table listing of sections and functionality to create and manage them. |
| **Styles** | A list of CSS style files and functionality to create and manage them. The "default" style displays by default. |

notextile. </div>

fn3. "Forms" may one day be renamed to "Partials" to better suggest their nature, but core developers have made it clear the change is not on their list of priorities due to the amount of work it would take to edit the core. Patches are probably welcome from the community. 

h3(#sec2-3). Admin

The **Admin** region of the administration side has seven panels out-of-the-box, of which the **Users** panel is the default.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Table">

| |_. What the panel provides you |
| "**Diagnostics**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/diagnostics-panel | Feedback messages and data displays to troubleshoot system problems. |
| **Import** | Functionality to import data from another publishing system. |
| **Languages** (Update languages)[4] | A list of language packs and the ability to update them. |
| "**Plugins**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/plugins-panel | A table listing of installed plugins, and functionality to manage them. |
| **Preferences** (basic/advanced)[4] | All configurable settings to make your site function correctly and as desired. |
| "**Users**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/users-panel (default) | A table listing of all user accounts and the functionality to manage them. |
| "**Visitor logs**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/visitor-logs-panel | A display of all site traffic. |

notextile. </div>

Examples of plugins that add additional panel options to the **Admin** region include smd_faux_role and wet_snitch.

fn4. The current version of Textpattern has a tertiary level of panels under the **Preferences** link: **Basic** (default), **Advanced**, and **Update languages**. Beginning with Textpattern 4.6, the **Basic** and **Advanced** panels will merge into a single, functional **Preferences** panel, and **Update languages** will become a new panel called **Languages** under the **Admin** region. The tree above shows the new 4.6 organization.

h3(#sec2-4). Extensions (not core)

The "**Extensions**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/extensionswill region is not an out-of-the-box feature of Textpattern, but it will appear to site administrators and Publishers if any of the admin-side plugins that make use of it are installed. The use of the **Extensions** region is basically a convention adopted by plugin developers to put administration-side plugin preferences and other functional controls in a logical place. 

Not all administration-side plugins use the **Extensions** region, however. Some will add their associated admin-side functionality as a panel in one of the other core regions. This typically happens when the plugin developer feels the functionality more closely associates with _content_, _presentation_, or _administration_ functionality (the latter being an obvious redundancy).[5] 

fn5. Another reason plugin panels end up in core regions is concern for the potential of having too many plugin panels under the **Extensions** region. Most likely this is an unwarranted concern for 99% of Textpattern's users. Either way, it can be a little confusing if you're expecting to find plugin functionality under **Extensions** but it's mixed in with the core panels. The issue is still evolving and will likely end up at a more regimented process for plugin developers.  

h2(#sec3). Recommended steps after installing

For those "installing Textpattern":http://docs.textpattern.io/installing/ for the first time ever, there's a typical little routine to walk through upon your first log in.

h3(#3-1). Set default language

Unless you change it at the initial installation screen, British English is the language used by default for the installation process, and subsequently for the administration UI. You can change the default language, again (if you desire), upon first log in. You'll land on the **Languages** panel automatically, where the the available language packs (called Textpacks) are listed. 

First you load the language you need by clicking the "Install" link for it. You can add as many as you want, but there's no point adding any you can't read. A green confirmation message will flash at bottom of your browser window after each install action. 

Then you override the current default by selecting the new language you want from the "Current active language" selection menu at top of the languages table.[6]

fn6. You'll need to click the **Save** button in Textpattern 4.5.7, but in 4.6 no save is necessary, the language change applies automatically.

h3(#3-2). Configure site identity and publishing behaviour

Your next stop after languages is "**Preferences**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/preferences-panel to verify site identity values and file paths, choose time zones and date formats, establish desired publishing behaviour, and so forth. Don't worry about addressing every single preference the fist pass. Some things won't be applicable at first anyway until you've planned your website architecture more. Initially focus on what you know can be set, and save all changes.

h3(#3-3). Troubleshoot diagnostics

Your next stop is the **Diagnostics** panel to troubleshoot any %(warning)warning% or %(error)error% messages that may be showing under **Pre-flight checks**. A reading of _%(success)All checks pass!%_ is the usual desired result. See noted exceptions in the "**Diagnostics**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/diagnostics-panel documentation.

h3(#3-4). Build your architecture

When diagnostics are clear, you're ready to build your site architecture and presentation. Building publishing architectures with Textpattern requires time learning and tinkering. There's no direct 1-2-3 method for it. But the learning is fun, and once you understand how Textpattern structures content and puts it together, you'll thank yourself for choosing such an elegant system. The following information will help you get oriented:

* "Administration fast track":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/admin-fast-track

h2(#sec4). Recommended steps after upgrading

A couple of the post-install routines apply to upgrading too.

h3(#4-1). Updating language packs

Chances are you don't need to change your default language at this point, or install new ones, but you will need to update the Textpacks you have installed. You'll see an "Update" link next to your installed language packs. Evidence of this link means you need to do what it says - update them. That's because Textpacks may have been modified since Textpattern's last version release, and you want to implement any such modifications or you may experience problems with the presentation of UI content elements. When updated you'll see the link change to a non-linked "Up-to-date", and your done.

Be aware that sometimes in course of running your site, depending on the plugins you have installed, you may need the occasional Textpack update (or upload) independent of normal Textpattern releases. Thus get in the habit of checking the **Languages** panel after installing plugins too, and/or verify with their developers if Textpack uploads are needed.

h3. Check diagnostics, again

Anytime you update anything -- system or plugins -- verify no issues cropped up in "**Diagnostics**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/diagnostics-panel.

h2(#sec4). Changing default login panel

The default admin-side landing location changes once you initially set your language preferences. You'll find yourself landing on the "**Write**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/write-panel panel from that point on, which is the default panel under the **Content** region.

You can change the default landing panel to whatever admin-side panel you want. In "**Preferences**":http://docs.textpattern.io/administration/preferences-panel, look under the **Admin** area for "Default administration panel".[7] Use the drop-down menu to select the panel you want, then save.

fn7. The current preference label is, "Default admin tab". Beginning with version 4.6 the label will become "Default administration panel", which is a normalization against "Textpattern guidelines":http://docs.textpattern.io/brand/.

