h1. Breadcrumb

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:breadcrumb />

The *breadcrumb* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to create "breadcrumb navigation":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadcrumb_trail. It provides either hyperlinked navigation, or plain text positional display, any time you are *not* on the Home page.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="value"@
Whether to hyperlink breadcrumbs.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @1@.
* @linkclass="class name"@
HTML class attribute applied to the breadcrumb links.
Default: unset.
* @separator="value"@
Character to be used as the breadcrumb separator.
Default: @ » @.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to display the title or not.
Values: @0@ (no, display name) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap breadcrumb block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a hyperlinked breadcrumb trail

bc. <txp:breadcrumb label="Navigation" separator="::" link="1" wraptag="p" />

Provides hyperlinks to sections or categories in a breadcrumb style, linking back to your home page.

p(alert-block information). Breadcrumbs are not displayed on the 'Default' section of your site.

h3. Example 2: Display a text only breadcrumb trail

bc. <txp:breadcrumb label="Navigation" separator="/" link="0" wraptag="p" />

Provides a breadcrumb guide that reflects where a user is within the site's navigation.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.5.0

Default @class="noline"@ for @linkclass@ attribute removed (now unset).

h3. Version 4.3.0

@sep@ attribute deprecated and renamed @separator@.
