h1. Category

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:category />

The *category* tag can be used as either a _single_ or _containing_ tag. It will display information of the category as defined by the @name@ attribute, or the one currently being viewed. When used as a containing tag, it will turn the contents into a link to the category. Otherwise, it will return plain text.

May be used in any context.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[class]]=&quot;class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ attribute, applied to @wraptag@. If no @wraptag@ is supplied (and @link"1"@), the @class@ is applied to the @<a>@ tag instead.
: Default: unset.
; [[link]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Whether to display as link. Works only in the _single_ tag, *not* in the _containing_ tag variant.
: Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
: Default: @0@.
; [[name]]=&quot;category name&quot;
: Display specific category. Note the category name is specified in lowercase regardless of how you typed its title in the [[Category]] page. Also note that if you had called your category @My Category Name@ it becomes @my-category-name@ when used in tags.
: Default: unset (use current category).
; [[section]]=&quot;section name&quot;
: Restricts category search to named section.
: Default: current section (for backwards compatibility).
; [[this_section]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: If set to @1@, the linked category name will direct users to an category list in the current section, otherwise category list from all sections is displayed.
: Only link to articles from the current section. The @section@ attribute overrides this setting.
: Values: @0@ (no, all sections) or @1@ (yes, this section only).
: Default: @0@.
; [[title]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Whether to display category's title instead of its name.
: Values: @0@ (no, display name) or @1@ (yes, display title).
: Default: @0@.
; [[type]]=&quot;category type&quot;
: Values: @article@, @image@, @link@ or @file@.
: Default: @article@.
; [[url]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Display plain URL or full link.
: Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
: Default: @0@ (display title or full link, depending on @link@).
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;tag&quot;
: HTML tag, specified without brackets, to wrap around output.
: Default: unset.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display the current category name

bc. <txp:category />

h3. Example 2: Display hyperlinked category title

bc. <txp:category title="1" link="1" />

h3. Example 3: Display a specific category's title, hyperlinked

bc. <txp:category name="article" title="1" link="1" wraptag="p" />

h3. Example 4: Container example

bc. <txp:category name="book">My books</txp:category>

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Applies @class@; attribute to the @<a>@ tag when the @wraptag@ attribute is empty.
@url@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@this_section@ attribute added.
