h1. Category list

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:category_list />

The *category_list* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of linked categories.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[active_class]]=&quot;class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ attribute to be applied to the @active@ or current link in a list. Only works in the _single_ tag without the @form@ attribute.
: Default: unset.
; [[categories]]=&quot;category name(s)&quot;
: Comma-separated list of categories to include, displayed in the order specified (unless overridden by @sort@ attribute). Use category names *not* titles here - note that Textpattern automatically converts the names to lowercase and converts spaces to hyphens when they are created.
: Default: unset (all categories).
; [[children]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Can limit the list depth to one level below the parent category.
: Values: @0@ (no children, i.e. only show one level below the parent) or @1@ (show all nested categories).
: Default: @1@.
; [[exclude]]=&quot;category name(s)&quot;
: List of category names which will be excluded from the list. @categories@ takes precendence over @exclude@.
: Default: unset.
; [[form]]=&quot;form name&quot;
: Use the specified form to process each included category.
; [[parent]]=&quot;category name&quot;
: Return only specified category and its children categories.
; [[section]]=&quot;section name&quot;
: Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
: Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
: Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
; [[sort]]=&quot;sort value(s)&quot;
: How to sort the resulting list.
: Values:
:: @ID@.
:: @name@.
:: @parent@.
:: @rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
:: @title@.
:: @type@.
: Default: @name asc@.
; [[this_section]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Link to currently active section (overrides @section@ attribute).
: Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
: Default: @0@.
; [[type]]=&quot;category type&quot;
: Available values: @article@, @image@, @link@, @file@.
: Default: @article@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[break]]=&quot;value&quot;
: Where value is an HTML element (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
: Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[class]]=&quot;name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[label]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label prepended to item.
: Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[labeltag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) label (e.g., @labeltag="h3"@).
: Default: unset.
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) list block (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Labelled category list

bc. <txp:category_list label="Categories" wraptag="p" break="br" />

h3. Example 2: As an unordered list

bc. <txp:category_list break="li" wraptag="ul" />

h3. Example 3: Set active class using the container tag

bc. <txp:category_list wraptag="ul" break="">
    <li<txp:if_category name="<txp:category />"> class="active"</txp:if_category>>
        <txp:category title="1" link="1" />
    </li>
</txp:category_list>

This code will add @class="active"@ to the @<li>@ element around the current viewed category in the list, allowing your to style it with CSS as desired.

Other tags used: "category":category.textile, "if_category":if-category.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Can be used as a container tag.
@form@ and @children@ attributes added.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@active_class@, @categories@, @exclude@, @section@ and @this_section@ attributes added.
