h1. Comments form

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:comments_form />

The *comments_form* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a comment form. Comments will be attached to present individual article as a default, or to the article set by the @id@ attribute.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[forgetlabel]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label that appears next to the 'Forget' @checkbox@.
: Default: @Forget@ (localised).
; [[form]]=&quot;form name&quot;
: Use specified form.
: Default: @comment_form@.
; [[isize]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: HTML @size@ attribute to be applied to the HTML form text @input@ fields.
: Default: @25&@.
; [[msgcols]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: HTML @cols@ attribute to be applied to HTML form @textarea@ field.
: Default: @25@.
; [[msgrows]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: HTML @rows@ attribute to be applied to HTML form @textarea@ field.
: Default: @5@.
; [[msgstyle]]=&quot;value&quot;
: CSS inline @style@ attribute to be applied to HTML form @textarea@ field (recommended that you use CSS via @textarea@'s @class@ or @id@ attribute instead).
; [[previewlabel]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label that appears on the 'Preview' button.
: Default: @Preview@ (localised).
; [[rememberlabel]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label that appears next to the 'Remember' @checkbox@.
: Default: @Remember@ (localised).
; [[submitlabel]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label that appears on the 'Submit' button.
: Default: @Submit@ (localised).

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[class]]=&quot;CSS class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: @comments_form@ (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;tag&quot;
: HTML tag to wrap around output, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Give visitors indication of 'Comments' status

Comments for articles can be turned on or off at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while still giving users indication of comment status:

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments_form />
<txp:else />
    <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

Other tags used: "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.textile, "else":.textile.

h3. Example 2: Text area changes in preview

Using some conditional tags, the size of the comment form @textarea@ can be changed in the preview.

bc. <txp:if_comments_preview>
    <txp:comments_preview form="comment" />
    <p>This is just a preview of your comment!</p>
    <txp:comments_form isize="30" msgcols="55" msgrows="5" />
<txp:else />
    <txp:if_comments_allowed>
        <txp:comments_form isize="30" msgcols="55" msgrows="15" />
    </txp:else />
        <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
    </txp:if_comments_allowed>
</txp:if_comments_preview>

Other tags used: "comments_preview":comments-preview.textile, "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.textile, "if_comments_preview":if-comments-preview.textile, "else":else.textile.

h3. Example 3: Display conditional comments and form

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments form="lineitem" break="li" wraptag="ul" />
    <txp:comments_form />
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

And then an example of what the form @lineitem@ could contain:

bc. <txp:comment_id />

For the current article, returns a list of id numbers for comments and a comment input form (but only if comments are currently allowed).

Other tags used: "comment_id":comment-id.textile, "comments":comments.textile, "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.5.0

Added @forgetlabel@, @previewlabel@, @rememberlabel@ and @submitlabel@ attributes.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@show_preview@ attribute removed.
