h1. Css

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:css />

The basic *css* tag is a _single_ tag used to output the URL of the stylesheet assigned in the Textpattern [[Sections]] page.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[format]]=&quot;value&quot;
: How to format output: either return complete "HTML link tag":https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/link with necessary HTML attributes, or only the stylesheet's URL.
: Values: @link@ or @url@.
: Default: @url@.
; [[media]]=&quot;value&quot;
: "HTML media attribute":https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/Media_queries to be applied to link tag (when invoked with @format="link"@).
: Default: @screen@.
; [[name]]=&quot;style name&quot;
: Link to specified style.
; [[rel]]=&quot;value&quot;
: "HTML rel attribute":https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Link_types to be applied to link tag (when invoked with @format="link"@).
: Default: @stylesheet@.
; [[title]]=&quot;value&quot;
: "HTML title attribute":https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#title to be applied to link tag (when invoked with @format="link"@).
: Default: unset.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Output just the stylesheet's URL

bc. <head>
    <!-- ...tags... -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="<txp:css />" media="screen, projector">
    <!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>

h3. Example 2: Output the link to the section's default stylesheet

bc. <head>
    <!-- ...tags... -->
    <txp:css format="link" />
    <!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>

h3. Example 3: Output the link to a named stylesheet

bc. <head>
    <!-- ...tags... -->
    <txp:css format="link" name="style_name" />
    <!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>

h3. Example 4: Output print and alternate stylesheets

bc. <head>
    <!-- ...tags... -->
    <txp:css format="link" name="plain" rel="alternate" title="Plain and simple style" />
    <txp:css format="link" name="glossy" rel="alternate" title="Glossy style" />
    <txp:css format="link" name="print" media="print" />
    <!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@n@ attribute deprecated and renamed to @name@.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@format@, @media@, @rel@ and @title@ attributes added.
