h1. File download author

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:file_download_author />

The *file_download_author* tag is  a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the author's name associated with the current download in a "file_download":file-download.textile. Can *only* be used inside @<txp:file_download />@.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[link]]=&quot;link type (boolean)&quot;
: Whether to hyperlink the author or not.
: Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
: Default: @0@.
; [[section]]=&quot;section name&quot;
: Direct any linked author name to the nominated section instead of to the default (front) page.
: Default: unset.
; [[this_section]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: If set to @1@, the linked author name will direct users to an author list in the current section, otherwise author list from all sections is displayed.
: Values: @0@ (no, all sections) or @1@ (yes, this section only).
: Default: @0@.
; [[title]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Whether to display the author's real name or login name.
: Values: @0@ (login name) or @1@ (real name).
: Default: @1@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[class]]=&quot;class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[Attributes Cross-reference#wraptag|wraptag]]=&quot;tag&quot;
: HTML tag (specified without brackets) to wrap around the author name (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

Tag support added.
