h1. File download list

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:file_download_list />

The *file_download_list* tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of download links according to the given attributes. Each file in the list is formatted by the file tags used in the given form (default is the @files@ form).

If used as a container, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc. <txp:file_download_list>
    ...contained statements...
</txp:file_download_list>

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[author]]=&quot;author login name&quot;
: Restrict to files with the specified author.
: Default: unset.
; [[auto_detect]]=&quot;string context&quot;
: List of Textpattern contexts to consider when automatically searching for files. If you wish to turn off the automatic check, set this to @auto_detect=""@.
: Values: @category@ (to look in the URL for a category list) and/or @author@ (to look in the URL for an author list).
: Default: @category, author@.
; [[category]]=&quot;category name&quot;
: Restrict to files from the specified category. Allows a comma separated list of category names. Note: category names may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitised for URL use. Check the [[Categories page]] to ensure you are using the correct names.
: Default: unset.
; [[form]]=&quot;form name&quot;
: Use the specified form to process the files.
: Default: @files@.
; [[id]]=&quot;file ID&quot;
: Display the specific file or list of files.
: Values: (comma separated list of) file ID(s).
: Default: unset.
; [[limit]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: Number of files to display.
: Default: @10@.
; [[offset]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: Number of files to skip.
: Default: unset.
; [[pageby]]=&quot;integer or limit&quot;
: Number of files to jump each page. Without this attribute, you cannot navigate using the "newer":newer.textile and "older":older.textile tags. Usually you will want to track the @limit@ attribute. Use @pageby="limit"@ to do this, which means you will not have to amend two values if you subsequently decide to alter the @limit@.
: Default: unset.
; [[realname]]=&quot;author real name&quot;
: Restrict to files with the specified author name.
: Default: unset.
; [[sort]]=&quot;by what and order&quot;
: How to sort the resulting list.
: Values:
:: @id@
:: @filename@
:: @title@
:: @category@
:: @description@
:: @downloads@
:: @created@
:: @modifie@
:: @rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
:: Adding a space and then one of either @asc@ or @desc@ orders by ascending or descending value, respectively.
: Default: @filename asc@.
; [[status]]=&quot;file status&quot;
: Restrict to files with the specified status.
: Values: @hidden@, @pending@, @live@.
: Default: @live@.

h3. Common Presentational Attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[break]]=&quot;value&quot;
: Where value is an HTML element (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
: Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[class]]=&quot;name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[label]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label prepended to item.
: Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[labeltag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) label (e.g., @labeltag="h3"@).
: Default: unset.
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) list block (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a list of the ten most popular downloads, in descending order

bc. <txp:file_download_list limit="10" break="li" wraptag="ol" sort="downloads desc" />

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@pageby@ attribute added to enable paging via "newer":newer.textile and "older":older.textile.
@author@ attribute added.
@realname@ attribute added.
@auto_detect@ attribute added to allow automatic (URL-based) contextual listings.

h3. Version 4.2.0

@id@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.7

Can be used as a container tag.

h3. Version 4.0.6

Support added for comma separated list for @category@ attribute.
