h1. Image author

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:image_author />

The *image_author* tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the author's name associated with the current image in an "images":images.textile list. It can *only* be used inside @<txp:images />@.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="link type (boolean)"@
Whether to hyperlink the author or not.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @section="section name"@
Direct any linked author name to the nominated section instead of to the default (front) page.
Default: unset.
* @this_section="boolean"@
If set to 1, the linked author name will direct users to an author list in the current section.
Values: @0@ (all sections) or @1@ (this section only).
Default: @0@.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to display the author's real name or login name.
Values: @0@ (login name) or @1@ (real name).
Default: @1@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap around the author name, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Add image author to gallery

bc. txp:images category="mammals">
    <a href="<txp:image_url />">
        <txp:thumbnail />
    </a>
    <div class="img-info">
        by <txp:image_author />
    </div>
</txp:images>

Other tags used: "images":images.textile, "thumbnail":thumbnail.textile.

h3. Example 2: Link to author list

bc. <txp:images category"fish">
    <a href="<txp:image_url />">
        <txp:thumbnail />
    </a>
    <div class="img-info">
        by <txp:image_author link="1" />
    </div>
</txp:images>

Displays thumbnails and author info for each image in the @fish@ category. The authors' names are hyperlinked to @example.com/author/image/User+Name@.

Other tags used: "images":images.textile, "thumbnail":thumbnail.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

Tag support added.
