h1. Image date

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:image_date />

The *image_date* tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the uploaded date of the current (or given) image. Should usually be used in an [[image form]], although it may be used on its own providing you specify an @id@ or @name@.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[id]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: An @id@ assigned at upload of an image to display. The IDs can be found on the [[Images page]].
: Default: unset.
; [[format]]=&quot;format string&quot;
: Override the default date format set in the [[Preferences page]].
: Values: any valid "strftime":http://php.net/strftime string values, @since@, @iso8601@ ("ISO 8601 reference":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601), @w3cdtf@ ("W3CDTF reference":http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime), or @rfc822@ ("RFC 822 reference":http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc822/#z28).
: Default: the 'Archive date format' set in preferences.
; [[name]]=&quot;image name&quot;
: An image to display, given by its image name as shown on the [[Images page]]. If both @name@ and @id@ are specified, the @id@ takes precedence.
: Default: unset.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display additional image information

bc. <txp:images category="mammals">
    <a href="<txp:image_url />">
        <txp:thumbnail />
    </a>
    <div class="img-info">
        <txp:image_info type="caption, author" break=" by " />
        <txp:image_date format="%e %b %Y" />
    </div>
</txp:images>

Other tags used: "images":images.textile, "image_url":image-url.textile, "image_info":image-info.textile, "thumbnail":thumbnail.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

Tag support added.
