h1. Link to prev

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:link_to_prev>

The *link_to_prev* tag can be used as a _single_ tag or a _container_ tag to return the permanent URL of the previous article by posting date.

If used as a container tag, the HTML required to output a hyperlink is returned; if used as a single tag, only the URL itself is returned.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @showalways="boolean"@
Show the wrapped value even when no previous article exists.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Link to previous article using its title

bc. <txp:link_to_prev>
    <txp:prev_title />
</txp:link_to_prev>

Other tags used: "prev_title":prev-title.textile.

h3. Example 2: Link to previous article using static text

bc. <txp:link_to_prev showalways="1">
    Previous
</txp:link_to_prev>

This will always display the text 'Previous', even when there is no previous article.

p(alert-block information). Note: While @showalways@ will enable this tag to display what is wrapped inside it, "prev_title":prev-title.textile returns nothing if there is no previous title, so nothing is displayed. Use text, or the returned value, that you need displayed.

h3. Example 3: Customising links

The container tag returns only a very basic link, which doesn't allow for customizing the link title, or adding a CSS class, etc. Using the tag in its single tag capacity opens up a lot more possibilities.

For example, to give the link an HTML @title@ attribute of the previous article's title, and also apply a @class@ to it:

bc. <a class="link--prev" href="<txp:link_to_prev />" title="<txp:prev_title />">
    ← Previous article
</a>

Other tags used: "prev_title":prev-title.textile.
