h1. Link description

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:link_description />

The *link_description* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the text from the 'Description' field as defined within the [[Links page]]. This tag is used in a 'Links' type form or inside a "linklist":linklist.textile container tag to display information about the current link.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[escape]]=&quot;html&quot;
: Escape HTML entities such as @<@, @>@ and @&@.
: Values: @html@ or unset.
: Default: @html@;

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[class]]=&quot;class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[label]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label prepended to item.
: Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[labeltag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
: Default: unset.
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap around description, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="div"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a link and its description field contents

&lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;&lt;p&gt;&lt;txp:link /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;&lt;txp:link_description /&gt;&lt;/p&gt;&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt;

Other tags used: "link":link.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Default value for @escape@ attribute changed from unset to @html@.
