h1. Link to next

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:link_to_next>

The *link_to_next* tag can be used as a _single_ tag or a _container_ tag to return the permanent URL of the next article by posting date.

If used as a container tag, the HTML required to output a hyperlink is returned; if used as a single tag, only the URL itself is returned.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @showalways="boolean"@
Show the wrapped value even when no next article exists.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Link to next article using the article title

bc. <txp:link_to_next>
    <txp:next_title />
</txp:link_to_next>

Other tags used: "next_title":next-title.textile.

h3. Example 2: Link to next article using static text

bc. <txp:link_to_next showalways="1">
    Next
</txp:link_to_next>

This will always display the text 'Next', even when there is no next article.

p(alert-block information). Note: While @showalways@ will enable this tag to display what is wrapped inside it, next_title":next-title.textile returns nothing if there is no next title, so nothing is displayed. Use text, or the returned value, that you need displayed.

h3. Example 3: Customising links

The container tag returns only a very basic link, which doesn't allow for customising the link title, or adding a CSS class, etc. Using the tag in its single tag capacity opens up a lot more possibilities.

For example, to give the link an HTML @title@ attribute of the next article's title, and also apply a @class@ to it:

bc. <a class="link--next" href="<txp:link_to_next />" title="<txp:next_title />">
    Next article →
</a>

Other tags used: "next_title":next-title.textile.
