h1. Meta keywords

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:meta_keywords />

Used in the head of an individual article page template or as a raw value, the *meta_keywords* tag is a _single_ tag. The tag can be used in a Textpattern 'article' type [[Form template]], or within a [[Page template]], either wrapped within a given article tag, or directly in the template itself so long as the context is with a single article (as opposed to an article list). Textpattern will replace this tag with an HTML @meta@ tag as follows:

bc. <meta name="keywords" content="Keywords as set in article's keywords field" />

Or as a raw value as follows:

bc. <p>Keywords: Keywords as set in article's keywords field</p>

p(alert-block information). Character limits: The keywords field has a 255 character limit by default, which includes spaces and commas. This is simply the MySQL database default - you can edit this using, for example, "phpMyAdmin":http://www.phpmyadmin.net.

h2. Attributes

; [[escape]]=&quot;html&quot;
: Escape HTML entities such as @<@, @>@ and @&@.
: Values: @html@ or unset.
: Default: @html@;
; [[format]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Display as @<meta>@ tag or as raw value.
: Values: @meta@ or unset.
: Default: @meta@ (display as a @<meta>@ tag).
; [[separator]]=&quot;value&quot;
: Character to be used as the keywords separator.
: Default: Unset.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Use article's keywords for meta tag content

bc. <txp:meta_keywords />

The *meta_keywords* tag returns an HTML @meta@ tag, populated with an article's keywords. The tag should always be placed in your template's 'head' section, between the opening and closing HTML @<head>@ tags.

The above will output keywords metadata with @content=""@ populated with the list of keywords set in the article's 'Keywords' field (the tag returns nothing if no keywords are set for an article). For example, if your article's 'Keywords' field contains @sauce, caramel, sugar@, the tag will output the following:

bc. <meta name="keywords" content="sauce, caramel, sugar" />

h3. Example 2: Display keywords in context of an article form

bc. <h1>
    <txp:permlink>
        <txp:title />
    </txp:permlink>
</h1>
<p>
    Date:
    <txp:posted />
</p>
<p>
    Keywords:
    <txp:meta_keywords format="" />
</p>
<txp:excerpt />
<txp:body />

In this example, keywords are used in a Textpattern 'article' type [[Form template]] along with other article components. The keywords themselves are used like a list of topical 'tags', e.g., like you would use for more granular searching. The keywords would be presented above the article's excerpt.

Other tags used: "permlink":permlink.textile, "title":title.textile, "posted":posted.textile, "excerpt":excerpt.textile, "body":body.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@escape@, @format@ and @separator@ attributes added.
