---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Permlink"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Article tags
---

h1. Permlink

h2. <txp:permlink>

The *permlink* can be used as a _single_ tag or a _container_ tag to return the permanent url of the article being displayed.

If used as a container tag, the HTML required to output a hyperlink is returned; if used as a single tag, only the URL itself is returned.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @id="integer"@
Specifies the article @id@, assigned at creation of the article, to link. Can be found on the [[Articles page]].
Default: unset (current article).
* @title="text"@
HTML @title@ attribute.
Default: unset.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @a@ tag when used as a container tag.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @style="style rule"@
Inline CSS @style@ rule. It's recommended that you assign CSS rules via @class@ attribute instead.
Default: unset.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Single tag

bc. <txp:permlink />

This would result in something like:

bc. http://example.com/index.php?id=2

h3. Example 2: Container tag

bc. <txp:permlink>
    <txp:title />
</txp:permlink>

This would result in the following:

bc. <a rel="bookmark" href="http://example.com/index.php?id=2">Article title</a>

Other tags used: "title":title.textile.

h3. Example 3: Customising permanent links

bc. <txp:permlink class="awesome-article">
    <txp:title />
</txp:permlink>

By default @<txp:permlink />@ returns only a very basic link, which doesn't allow for customizing the link title, or adding a CSS class, etc. Using the tag in its single tag capacity opens up a lot more possibilities.

For example, to have the permanent link have an HTML title attribute of the article's title, and also apply a class to it named "orange":

bc. <a class="awesome-article" href="<txp:permlink />">
    <txp:title />
</a>

Other tags used: "title":title.textile.
