h1. Recent articles

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:recent_articles />

The *recent_articles* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to produce a list of permanent links to recent articles by title.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[category]]=&quot;category name&quot;
: Restrict to articles from specified category/ies. Note: category names may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category. Check the [[Categories]] tab to ensure you are using the correct names.
: Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s).
: Default: unset.
; [[limit]]=&quot;integer&quot;
: Number of articles to display.
: Default: &lt;code&gt;10&lt;/code&gt;.
; [[no_widow]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Whether to inhibit line breaks in titles which would leave just a single word on the last line ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widow_%28typesetting%29 widows]).
: Values: &lt;code&gt;0&lt;/code&gt; single words allowed; &lt;code&gt;1&lt;/code&gt; single words not allowed on their own line
: Default: Whatever is set in [[Advanced_Preferences#Prevent_widowed_words_in_article_titles.3F|Advanced Preferences]]
; [[section]]=&quot;section_name&quot;
: Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
: Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
: Default: unset.
; [[sort]]=&quot;sort value(s)&quot;
: How to sort resulting list.
: Values:
::&lt;code&gt;ID&lt;/code&gt; (article id#)
::&lt;code&gt;AuthorID&lt;/code&gt; (author)
::&lt;code&gt;LastMod&lt;/code&gt; (date last modified)
::&lt;code&gt;LastModID&lt;/code&gt; (author of last modification)
::&lt;code&gt;Posted&lt;/code&gt; (date posted)
::&lt;code&gt;Title&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Category1&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Category2&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;comments_count&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Status&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Section&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Keywords&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;Image&lt;/code&gt; (article image id#)
::&lt;code&gt;url_title&lt;/code&gt;
::&lt;code&gt;custom_1&lt;/code&gt; through &lt;code&gt;custom_10&lt;/code&gt;&lt;br /&gt;(From 4.2.0 on: &lt;code&gt;custom_''n''&lt;/code&gt;)
::&lt;code&gt;rand()&lt;/code&gt; ([http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand random]).
: Default: @Posted desc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[break]]=&quot;value&quot;
: Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
: Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[class]]=&quot;name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[label]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label prepended to item.
: Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[labeltag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
: Default: unset.
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Labelled list of recent articles

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Latest and greatest" limit="5" />

Produces a list of the 5 most recent articles, along with the label 'Latest and greatest'.

h3. Example 2: List of recent articles by category, with a heading

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Latest" labeltag="h3" break="li" wraptag="ol" category="code" sort="Section desc" />

Produces a numerical list of the 5 most recent articles categorised with @code@, along with the heading 'Latest'.

h3. Example 3: Offsetting a recent article list

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Other recent articles" limit="5" offset="1" />

Produces a list of the 5 most recent articles _apart_ from the most recent one, along with the label 'Other recent articles'.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.6

Added support for comma separated lists for @section@ and @category@ attributes.

h3. Version 4.6.0

Added @offset@ attribute.
