h1. Search result count

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:search_result_count />

The *search_result_count* tag is a _single_ tag that returns the number of articles returned by an article tag. Use "if_search":if-search.textile to count search results or use in regular page after the "article":article.textile tag. If you need the results' count _before_ the list of results, use the article tag in conjunction with @pgonly="1"@ (see example 3).

p(alert-block information). Note: The "if_search":if-search.textile conditional tag is required to recognise actual search results, without them the number of articles is returned by default.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[text]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Text to display with the number of matches.
: Default: @articles found@.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a number of matches

bc. <txp:if_search>
    <txp:article />
    <txp:search_result_count />
</txp:if_search>

If the visitor is searching for articles, it will show the number of articles that matched the search term (e.g. 5) as follows: @5 articles found@.

Other tags used: "article":article.textile, "if_search":if-search.textile.

h3. Example 2: Number of matches with custom text

bc. <txp:if_search>
    <txp:search_result_count text="hits" />
</txp:if_search />

Displays the number of articles returned (e.g. 5) as follows: @5 hits@.

Other tags used: "if_search":if-search.textile.

h3. Example 3: Search result count above results

bc. <txp:if_search>
    <txp:article pgonly="1" limit="20" />
    <txp:search_result_count text="hits" />
    <txp:article limit="20" />
</txp:if_search />

Displays the number of articles returned (e.g. 5) as follows: @5 hits@ - then displays results as an article listing.

p(alert-block information). Note: The @pgonly@ attribute sets the article tag to return pagination statistics without rendering the article list. Care must be taken to remain consistent with article tag attributes to keep statistics accurate.

Other tags used: "article":article.textile, "if_search":if-search.textile.
