h1. Section list

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:section_list />

The *section_list* tag is a _single_ or _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of linked sections. When used as a container tag, it is used as an opening and closing pair, like this:

bc. <txp:section_list>
    ...contained statements...
</txp:section_list>

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

; [[active_class]]=&quot;class name&quot; (only works in the _single_ tag without the @form@ attribute)
: HTML @class@ to apply to the 'active' or current link in a list.
: Default: unset
; [[default_title]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Text used as a title for the 'default' section when @include_default@ is set to @1@.
: Default: site name.
; [[exclude]]=&quot;section name(s)&quot;
: Comma-separated list of section names to exclude from the list. @sections@ takes precedence over @exclude@.
: Default: unset (none).
; [[form]]=&quot;form name&quot;
: Use specified form template to process each included section.
: Default: unset.
; [[include_default]]=&quot;boolean&quot;
: Whether to include 'default' section in section list.
: Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
: Default: @0@.
; [[sections]]=&quot;section name(s)&quot;
: Comma-separated list of section names to include in the list, displayed in specified order (unless overridden by the @sort@ attribute).
: Default: unset (all sections).
; [[sort]]=&quot;sort value(s)&quot;
: How to sort resulting list.
: Values:
:: @css@.
:: @in_rss@.
:: @is_default@.
:: @name@.
:: @on_frontpage@.
:: @page@.
:: @rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
:: @searchable@.
:: @Title@.
:: Each field in the @textpattern@ database table can be used as a sort key.
:: When viewing a search results list, @score@ (how well the search terms match the article) is available as an additional value.
: Default: @name asc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

; [[break]]=&quot;value&quot;
: Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
: Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[class]]=&quot;class name&quot;
: HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
: Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
; [[label]]=&quot;text&quot;
: Label prepended to item.
: Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
; [[labeltag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
: Default: unset.
; [[wraptag]]=&quot;element&quot;
: HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
: Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a linked section list

bc. <txp:section_list label="Sections" wraptag="p" break="br" />

Adds the label 'Sections' and wraps the output in a paragraph with each section on its own line.

h3. Example 2: Display a styled section list

bc. <txp:section_list wraptag="ul" break="li" />

h3. Example 3: Set active class using the container tag

bc. <txp:section_list wraptag="ul" break="">
    <li<txp:if_section name='<txp:section />'> class="active"></txp:if_section>>
        <txp:section title="1" link="1" />
    </li>
</txp:section_list>

This code will add @class="active"@ to the @<li>@ element around the currently viewed section in the list.

Other tags used: "if_section":if-section.textile, "section":section.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

* Can be used as a container tag.
* @form@ attribute added.
