\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:link_date />


The "link&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_date tag is a _single_ tag which returns the date the link was created as text. This tag is used in a “link” form or inside the "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklistcontainer tag to return information about the current link in a "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#format=“format string”*
 Override default date format, as set in "basic&#95;preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences. Values: any valid "strftime()":http://php.net/strftime string values, or

bc(code). since


. *"gmt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#gmt=“boolean”*
 Return either local time  -  according to the set time zone preferences  -  or GMT. Values:

bc(code). 0


(local time) or

bc(code). 1


(GMT). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"lang":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#lang=“ISO language code”*
 Format time string suitable for the specified language (locale). Locales adhere to "ISO-639":http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/langcodes.html. Default: unset, resulting in a time format set via preferences.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_link_with_class_attribute). Example 1: Display a link with class attribute

bc(code). <a class="thislink" href="<txp:link_url />">
<txp:link_name escape="html" />
</a> : <txp:link_date />


Other tags used: "link&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_url, "link&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_name

