\n"mininav_tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tutorials

Privilege assignments determine what actions a Textpattern user is allowed to perform on the administrative side of the site.

If you are not familiar or comfortable with working with PHP code (essentially hacking the Textpattern system), then you are not advised to make these modifications. This write-up is intended for site administrators only.

h3(sectionedit1#changing_the_user_labels_as_they_appear_in_the_users_tab). Changing the User Labels as They Appear in the Users Tab

To modify the labels used for user privileges as they appear in the “Users” tab of the administration area of your website, you need to access the

bc(code). txp_admin.php


file. In it you will see the following:

bc(code). $levels = array(
  1 => gTxt('publisher'),
  2 => gTxt('managing_editor'),
  3 => gTxt('copy_editor'),
  4 => gTxt('staff_writer'),
  5 => gTxt('freelancer'),
  6 => gTxt('designer'),
  0 => gTxt('none')
);


To rename a label, change the text following the arrow (

bc(code). =>


). For example: if you wanted to change “Publisher” to appear as “Supreme Being” in the “Users” tab options, then in the code above you would change

bc(code). gTxt('publisher')


to

bc(code). 'Supreme Being'


.

h3(sectionedit2#changing_the_permissions_for_each_user_role). Changing the Permissions for Each User Role

To customize the user permissions that are assignable on the site's admin tab, you need to access the

bc(code). /textpattern/lib/admin_config.php


file. At the bottom of the file you will see the code shown "here":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=user_roles_and_permissions. Note in each line of code there is text description of the particular feature of Textpattern to which a specific privilege can be assigned; this is followed by a sequence of numbers that match the user roles indicated in the previous section, and which are assigned to each particular Textpattern feature. For example, in the second line of code below you see the feature of “admin” followed by a sequence of numbers from 1 to 6. This is indicating that the admin of the site has the abilities to serve every role indicated in the previous section... Publisher (1), Managing Editor (2), Copy Editor (3), etc.

