---
layout: document
category: brand
published: true
title: "Textpattern brand and voice"
tags:
  - audience
  - assets
  - brand
  - communication
  - editorial
  - logo
  - presentation
  - style guidelines
  - voice

---

h1. Textpattern brand and voice

The Textpattern project is producing its first brand and voice resources. The project uses these resources for all its platforms and associated content. We ask you to consider using these resources too when writing your own blog articles, speaking at conferences, giving work/client presentations, or any other scenario where you're communicating to audiences about Textpattern CMS.

On this page:

* "Audiences":#sec1
* "Brand":#sec2
** "Identity":#2-1
** "Assets":#sec2-2
* "Guidelines":#sec3
** "Content":#sec3-1
** "Presentation":#3-2

h2(#sec1). Audiences

Learn about Textpattern's primary audiences and how to design information products for them.

[todo]

h2(#sec2). Brand

Learn about the elements that make up the Textpattern brand and how to use them.

h3(#sec2-1). Identity

Building the next Textpattern fan site? Learn how to use Textpattern's brand harmoniously without misrepresenting project identity.

* Visual brand identity [todo]

h3(#sec2-2). Assets

Resources and how to use them.

* Textpattern logo [todo:link]

h2(#sec3). Guidelines

Learn how to write and design information that's consistent, clear, and professionally representable.

h3(#sec3-1). Content

* "Editorial style guidelines":http://docs.textpattern.io/brand/editorial-style-guidelines
* "Plugin user-help guidelines":http://docs.textpattern.io/development/plugin-user-help-guidelines

h3(#sec3-2). Presentation

* Administration UI guidelines [todo]
* Web presentation guidelines [todo]

