---
layout: document
category: administration
published: true
title: "Diagnostics"
tags:
  - diagnostics
  - pre-flight checks
  - error messages
  - low info
  - high info
  - php functions
---

h1. Diagnostics

The **Diagnostics** panel is important for troubleshooting problems with your Textpattern installation, such as you might discover when installing or upgrading to a new version. They can also be useful for troubleshooting functional problems that you may have introduced by accident when extending the system, modifying the __.htaccess__ file, or some other slight of hand.

The **Diagnostics** panel is composed of two display regions: **Pre-flight checks** and **Diagnostic info**. Though the latter comes after the former in the panel, it may be useful to talk about them in reverse here.

On this page:

* "Diagnostic info display":#sec1
* "Pre-flight checks":#sec2
* "Diagnostic reporting on PHP functions":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Diagnostic info display

The actual diagnostics information is displayed in the **Diagnostics info** field. The volume of details displayed may be set to "Low" (the default) or "High", which you can toggle between using the **Detail** selection control at bottom of the info display field.

h3. Low info display

Low diagnostics info begins with a set of data values about your installation and server technology. A few value descriptions are provided here for general understanding, but most should be obvious.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data">
	
|_. Data item |_. What it tells you |
| Textpattern version: | whatever version you have installed |
| Last update: | |
| Document root: | |
| $path_to_site: | |
| Textpattern path: | path to your installation directory |
| Permanent link mode: | how you've configured your URLs to appear |
| upload_tmp_dir: | |
| Temporary directory path: | |
| Site URL: | |
| PHP version: | |
| GD Graphics Library: | |
| Server TZ: | your web server's time zone |
| Server local time: | |
| DST enabled?: | |
| Automatically adjust DST setting?: | |
| Time zone: | your time zone |
| MySQL: | version and build of your MySQL database server |
| Locale: | the language and character set you have configured |
| Server: | version and build of your web server |
| PHP server API: | |
| RFC 2616 headers: | |
| Server OS: | |
| Active plugins: | a list of all plugins you have installed that are turned _ON_ |

notextile. </div>

The installation and server data is followed by the contents of your @.htaccess@ file (from the installation directory). For purposes here we show the "file contents from the current version code":https://github.com/textpattern/textpattern/blob/master/.htaccess, which is the part between the two dotted lines below:

bc.. <code>.htaccess</code> file contents: 
------------------------
#DirectoryIndex index.php index.html

#Options +FollowSymLinks
#Options -Indexes
#ErrorDocument 403 default

<IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
	RewriteEngine On
	#RewriteBase /relative/web/path/

	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -f [OR]
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} -d
	RewriteRule ^(.+) - [PT,L]

	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !=/favicon.ico
	RewriteRule ^(.*) index.php

	RewriteCond %{HTTP:Authorization}  !^$
	RewriteRule .* - [E=REMOTE_USER:%{HTTP:Authorization}]
</IfModule>

#php_value register_globals 0

# SVG
<IfModule mod_mime.c>
	AddType image/svg+xml  svg svgz
	AddEncoding gzip       svgz
</IfModule>
------------------------

p. Over time your @.htaccess@ file will change as you add your own mod_rewrite rules, or whatever, and the changes will reflect in the diagnostics info display. 

h3. High info display

High diagnostics info display includes the Low info above, but adds the following information.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data">
	
|_. Data item |_. What it tells you |
| Charset (default/config): | if you don't see a lot of "UTF-8" values on these "character_set" items, you might want ask yourself why not |
| character_set_client: | |
| character_set_connection: | |
| character_set_database: | |
| character_set_filesystem: | |
| character_set_results: | |
| character_set_server: | |
| character_set_system: | |
| character_sets_dir: | |
| "n" Tables: | "n" being the number of Textpattern tables that exist in your installation (a default install has 17, anything more is from plugins or other extensions you've added); the value also indicates if tables are "OK" or not |
| "n" Custom fields: |"n" being the number of custom fields; value also indicates name of all counted fields |
| PHP extensions: | list of extension names/versions your web host has enabled |
| pretext_data: | value is a piece of code; useful for developers to evaluate |
| {/textpattern files, not shown here} | list of Textpattern configuration files from the /textpattern directory; indicates file path, revision number, and MD5 Checksum hash number |

notextile. </div>

The last item above reflects a long list of Textpattern configuration files which makes up the end of the High info data shown.

h2(#sec2). Pre-flight checks

The **Pre-flight checks** display is where diagnostic feedback messages appear. There are four kinds of feedback messages: success (green), information (blue), warning (yellow), and error (red)..

h3. Success (green)

There is only one green message: 

%(success)All checks passed!% 

This message displays when you successfully address and/or troubleshoot all, blue, yellow, and red feedback messages that might exist. _Go green!_

h3. Information (blue)

Blue messages are informational only. They tell something to make you aware of it, not because you need to troubleshooting a functional problem, necessarily. 

There are three possible blue messages: 

* %(information)New Textpattern version n.n.n "available for download":http://textpattern.com/download.% -- This is simply letting you know that you're not using the latest stable release (where "n.n.n" is the version number). Generally you should update your system for security reasons, if nothing else. 
* %(information)cleanurl_only_apache% -- If you see this message, it means you are _not_ using an Apache web server. The message appears to let you know that clean URLs are not supported on IIS or any other server besides Apache. The implication is, you know what you're doing so don't need to be nagged about it with a real warning (yellow) or error (red) message.
* %(information)file_uploads_disabled% -- This message appears if you have file uploads disabled. The assumption is that you've consciously made this choice so no action is needed. The blue message is simply confirming the situation. If you want the message to go away, enable file uploads.

h3. Warning (yellow) 

Yellow (warning) messages are not critical, per se, and sometimes can even be cascading[1] or false.[2] But when warnings are accurate, they mean something specific needs resolved in order to work correctly.

There are several possible warning messages. Where no description is given below, you are advised to look at the UI information for the warnings by clicking the "Information icon at right of the **Pre-flight check** items": 

* path_to_site_missing %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* dns_lookup_fails %(warning)DNS lookup failed: {site URL}% -- This means the "Site URL" preference you have entered in the **"Basic":preferences/basic-prefs-panel** panel is probably incorrect somehow. Check the value and make sure it's entered exactly like this, @domain.tld@, using your domain name and TLD extension.
* %(warning)Site URL preference might be incorrect: {site URL}% -- Similar to the previous message, this is suggesting the "Site URL" as set in the preferences tab does not match the actual URL you use to visit your website.
* %(warning)Clean URL test failed.% -- This is not necessarily an error, and could appear for different reasons. Check the help information. It could be caused by the PHP configuration setting of @allow_url_fopen@, or some other hosting issue, or it might go away by fixing other warning messages.
* site_trailing_slash %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* setup_still_exists %(warning)/usr/home/{username}/public_html/textpattern/setup/ still exists% -- This means you need to remove the "setup" folder from the web server. 
* %(warning)image directory is read-only% -- This means permissions on your images folder needs changed before you can add any images to it; change permissions to chmod 755 or 711.[3]
* no_temp_dir %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* warn_mail_unavailable %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* warn_register_globals_or_update %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* modified_files %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* dev_version_live %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* some_php_functions_disabled %(warning)The following PHP functions (which may be necessary to run Textpattern) are disabled on your server...% -- If you see this message, it will be followed by a number of PHP functions that are disabled on your web server. Textpattern needs certain functions enabled to work correctly, while other functions, if disabled, can be ignored. See section below, "Diagnostics reporting on PHP functions":#sec3, for more about which function are needed or not.
* site_url_mismatch %(warning)path_to_site doesn't match document_root [ /home/yourserveralias/public_html ]% -- This could either mean you do not have the right “Site URL” path set in "Basic preferences":basic-prefs-panel.textile, or, in the case of upgrading, you still need to update your @index.php@ and/or @.htaccess@ files (see next message). (This could also be a false error. For example, symlinks cannot be correctly recognised, so you might get this error even if there's no true problem. Unless you are experiencing real technical issues, you shouldn't worry too much about this feedback message if it doesn't go away. Understandably that is not satisfying advice.)
* clean_url_data_failed %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* clean_url_test_failed %(warning)txp_lang phrase needed here%

fn1. Cascading errors: Sometimes the existence of one yellow or red issue can be the cause of another, so be sure to reload the Diagnostics panel as you resolve each yellow or red issue; you might find it eliminates another in the process.

fn2. False errors: On rare occasions, yellow and red messages have been known to appear but not go away when addressed as instructed by their help information. Textpattern developers have indicated this can happen in odd situations and is almost always a false warning when it does, meaning there isn't anything to worry about. If you ever have this problem and can't seem to resolve it, post about it in the "Troubleshooting forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=67 and someone will try to help.

fn3. Folder permissions: A chmod setting of 755 or 711 should word, and is secure. But a lot of people have trouble with this and need to use a chmod of 777, which has "security implications":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26613. The discrepancy is due to how Apache directives are configured on the web server, which means you may have to haggle with your web host to change the directives.

h3. Error (red)

Red messages mean something critical appears to be wrong and you need to troubleshoot it immediately. 

Possible red messages include:

* path_to_site_inacc %(error)path_to_site is inaccessible% -- This mmeans either one or both of the previous diagnostics are a problem. Follow the troubleshooting procedures for them accordingly, and this problem will likely go away.
* php_version_required %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* index_inaccessible %(error)/index.php is inaccessible% -- This suggests your @index.php@ file is not available, is not the right version, or that your "Site URL" is set wrong in "Basic preferences":basic-prefs-panel.textile. It could also mean the @index.php@ file was not updated for whatever reason during a recent upgrade. Update the file using the one in the "current Textpattern repository":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/current/ and refresh diagnostics.
* dir_not_writable %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* htaccess_missing %(error).htaccess file is missing% -- This concerns the @.htaccess@ file, but doesn't necessarily mean the file is missing; the message usually appears if you are trying to use one of the “clean” URL settings, and you have one of the previous diagnostic issues with the wrong path or have a missing @index.php@ file. Take care of those issues first and this message may disappear. If that does not work, then definitely check to see if you even have an @.htaccess@ file. If the file is there, then either replace it from the "current Textpattern repository":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/current/, or click the help link next to this particular message and replace the contents of your existing @.htaccess@ file with the indicated rewrite rules in the help dialog.
* mod_rewrite_missing %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* old_placeholder_exists %(error)xxx% -- This likely means you have created an actual folder in your server file tree that shares a name with a __section__ you created in the **Sections** panel, or visa versa. This can break your site. You need to rename or remove one or the other. 
* missing_files %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* mysql_table_errors %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here%
* tmp_plugin_paths_match %(error)txp_lang phrase needed here% -- This means paths to your plugin cache and __tmp__ locations are the same. Neither should be web accessible, but if you set them to the same location, a temp file could overwrite a plugin, and that would be bad. Create a different folder location for your plugin cache.

h2(#sec3). Diagnostic reporting on PHP functions

Textpattern requires certain PHP functions to be enabled for your website to work properly, or to work at all. Your website administrator or web host will be in control of these, and may have certain functions turned off for "security" reasons. 

Diagnostics can tell you if any of these necessary functions are disabled. You'll see this pre-flight check warning: %(warning)The following PHP functions (which may be necessary to run Textpattern) are disabled on your server...%.

If so, compare the indicated functions with those in the table below to see if any match and thus need enabled.

h3. Functions used by Textpattern

The following functions are used by Textpattern. If your diagnostics reports any of these as _disabled_, you need to get in touch with your web server administrator or web host and explain why you need them turned on (for your Textpattern site to work). Point them to this page, if you want. If they won't help you, find a more suitable web host, because there is no real reason to disable these functions.

notextile. <div class="tabular-data">

|_. Name |_. Use |
| apache_get_modules | Helps determine whether clean urls could be used at setup, and for diagnostics info. |
| apache_get_version | Helps provide diagnostics info regarding clean urls. |
| parse_ini_file | Language features, even if English is used. |
| php_sapi_name | Determines whether PHP is running as an Apache module or CGI. Used for sending header information appropriate to the platform. |
| php_uname | Provides diagnostics info regarding the server’s operating system. |
| set_time_limit | Makes sure PHP does not timeout before installation, updates (including language string changes), and file downloads can be completed. |

notextile. </div>

h3. Functions not used by Textpattern

These functions are _not_ used by Textpattern.[4] If diagnostics reports one or more of these functions as disabled, you may safely ignore the message, because they do not affect Textpattern's operation in any way.

* apache_child_terminate
* apache_getenv
* apache_note
* apache_setenv
* chgrp
* chown
* close_log
* debugger_off
* debugger_on
* define_syslog_variables
* diskfreespace
* disk_total_space
* dl
* error_log
* escapeshellarg
* escapeshellcmd
* exec
* get_current_user
* getrusage
* highlight_file
* imagefilltoborder
* ini_alter
* ini_restore
* leak
* link
* listen
* mysql_pconnect
* openlog
* pack
* passthru
* pclose
* pfsockopen
* phpinfo
* popen
* proc_close
* proc_get_status
* proc_nice
* proc_open
* proc_terminate
* putenv
* readlink
* set_socket_blocking
* shell_exec
* show_source
* socket_… (i.e. socket_bind)
* symlink
* syslog
* system
* system_exec
* virtual
* wget

fn4. If you discover any functions named in your feedback message that are not listed above, create a new topic in the "Troubleshooting forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=67 and post the "High" diagnostics info so someone can help you determine if the function is necessary or not.