---
layout: document
category: administration
published: true
title: "Plugins"
tags:
  - plugins
  - extension
---

"Main ToC":http://docs.textpattern.io ⨠ Administration ⨠ **Admin** ⨠  **Plugins**

h1. Plugins

Textpattern by itself is capable of doing a lot, especially as you learn to use __forms__ and __"core tags":http://docs.textpattern.io/tags/__ in increasingly sophisticated ways. But when your needs cannot be met (or met easily) by core ingenuity alone, you can extend functionality with plugins, whether to produce content and behaviour, enhance configurability or usability, and more. 

On this page:

* "Uploading plugins":#sec1
** "Finding plugins":#sec1-1
** "Plugin file anatomy":#sec1-2
** "Verifying file contents":#sec1-3
** "Installation errors":#sec1-4
* "Managing plugins":#sec2
** "Activating a plugin":#sec2-1
** "Editing a plugin":#sec2-2
** "Plugin help and options":#sec2-3
* "Updating plugins":#sec3
* "":#sec1

h2(#sec1). Uploading plugins

The top part of the **Plugins** panel is an **Install plugin** field for uploading plugin files.

Installing a plugin goes something like this:

# Find the plugin file you want.
# Copy the plugin file to your clipboard.
# Paste the file into the **Install plugin** textarea box at top of the panel.
# Click the **Upload** button to verify contents.
# Click the **Install** button to finish installation and add plugin to the plugin table.
# When ready, activate the plugin by clicking the "No" link under the **Active** column in the table. 

Most of that is pretty straight forward, but let's touch upon steps 1, 2, and 4 a bit more.

h3(#sec1-1). Finding plugins

At this time, the Textpattern project doesn't have a centralised repository for all its community-built plugins, but plugin developers (often called "plugin authors") generally proceed by the following process to make their plugins available, and thus for others to find them:

**Developer websites**. First, plugin developers typically make their plugins available at their own websites, and once you know who those plugin developers are, you can find their websites via their forum profiles, and often their specific plugin links in the signatures of their forum posts.[1]

**Plugin author support forum**. Second, plugin developers will initially announce their plugins by creating a plugin support thread for each one in the "Plugin author support":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=79 forum. This provides a vector for finding plugins by monitoring the forum activity or using the forum's search. These plugin threads are also where you ask questions about using a given plugin, or share ideas for its improvement.[2]

**Plugin archive**. Third, plugin developers will generally (not always) add their plugin to the "plugins archive":http://textpattern.org/plugins at textpattern.org. This is an old site (disregard the lack of brand cohesion) that may one day become the official central plugin repository that the Textpattern project desparately needs. For now, it's just another possible location to look. Use the search or category filtering to find the functionality or focus you are after and download it. (As an alternative to the search, you can scan through the "entire list of plugins":http://textpattern.org/archives?section=plugins.)

**Github**. Finally, plugin developers are increasingly using Github to archive and maintain their plugins, but there's not a lot of momentum in this direction yet, nor is there a convenient listing of those authors that are going this way.

fn1. Plugin authors have been known to abandon their plugins and websites over time, so relying on a plugin author's website alone is not always possible.

fn2. This has always been the most popular way for people to discover plugins, but your kilometrage will vary.

h3(#sec1-2). Plugin file anatomy

The plugin itself is a text (.txt) file. It usually has a header stating the name of the plugin and other details, then the code itself in "Base-64":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64 format. Following is an hypothetical example showing the exact structure of a given file:

bc.. # Name: abc_myplugin v0.1
# Type: Client side plugin
# Brief description of the plugin
# Author: A.N. Other
# URL: http://domain.tld/
# Recommended load order: 5

# .....................................................................
# This is a plugin for Textpattern - http://textpattern.com/
# To install: textpattern &gt; admin &gt; plugins
# Paste the following text into the 'Install plugin' box:
# .....................................................................

YTo5OntzOjQ6Im5hbWUiO3M6Njoic21kX2lmIjtzOjY6ImF1dGhvciI7czoxMToiU3RlZiBE
YXdzb24iO3M6MTA6ImF1dGhvcl91cmkiO3M6MjI6Imh0dHA6Ly9zdGVmZGF3c29uLmNvbS8i
O3M6NzoidmVyc2lvbiI7czo0OiIw...

p. The Base-64 part on the bottom would normally be much longer, so be sure to copy the _entire_ file when you really do go after one.

Depending on where you find your plugin file, you may be able to view its contents on location and copy the file without downloading it, or you may need to download the file first, open it, and copy the contents locally. Either way, once you have the text file contents copied, paste it into the **Install plugin** textarea box as indicated earlier, and click **Upload**.

h3(#sec1-3). Verifying file contents

After clicking the **Upload** button, you'll be shown an intermediate view of the plugin file -- a decompiled view -- as it was written. You don't have to do anything here but look for obvious weirdness. For example, if you didn't see anything at all, that would be a problem, or if the plugin panel disappeared, that should be telling you to retreat. Otherwise, find the **Install** button and click it.

This will add the plugin record to the table, where you can then manage it.

h3(#sec1-4). Installation errors

Sometimes large plugins can cause problems when you click the **Install button**, you might see the following error...

%(error)Badly formed or empty plugin code.%

This is usually resolved by obtaining and installing a compressed version of the plugin.[3] Compressed plugins are equivalent to regular text plugins, but begin with a sequence that looks like this:

bc. H4sIAAAAAAAAA919a3PbRrbg56Rq/kOH8UTkDiWKkh+xJCtXsWWPZxXHa8meeyvjUoFEk8QY
BGgAlKz1+L/vefULACk6dvZO3amJRTYa53SfPn3e3YwOHh58LA/uHnSyaK47h+XB/YNOOY8v
k4l8iZbVLC/wy3B40Dmv9EQ9...

You'll need gzip on your web server in order to install compressed plugins, but most web servers have it.

fn3. You can often find compressed plugins where a regular text version is available. If not, you can install the "ied_plugin_composer":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=14898 plugin and use that to create you're own compressed version.

h2(#sec2). Managing plugins

The bottom part of the panel is a table display for seeing and managing the plugins you've uploaded. (The table will be empty after a new Textpattern installation.)

The plugin table displays the following data columns for each plugin:

* Plugin (name)
* Author
* Version
* Modified
* Description
* Active
* Order
* Manage

All of the columns can be used to sort the table records in alpha-numeric order by the column data types, _except_ the **Description** and **Manage* columns, which are static.

Beyond that, certain columns have particular value.

h3(#sec2-1). Activating a plugin

When you first install a plugin, it's in a non-utilisable state until you activate it. To activate a plugin, click the "No" link in the **Active** column. The link will turn to "Yes" and the plugin is ready to use. To deactivate a plugin, which you might do temporarily when troubleshooting errors in your code that could be related to plugins in some way, click the "Yes" link to toggle it off again. 

h3(#sec2-2). Editing a plugin

Once a plugin is installed, you can make changes to its code. You might do this if you have a special functional need from the plugin, or you find a small bug that the plugin author doesn't have the time to fix right away. To access the PHP code, click the plugin's name in the **Plugin** column of the table. This opens the code in "edit" mode.[3] If you edit the plugin and save it, you'll see a %(warning)Yes% entry for the plugin in the **Modified** column. Keep in mind that if you update the plugin to a new version later, it will overwrite any custom edits you make.

fn3. You could also install and used "ied_plugin_composer":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=14898, which not only allows you to edit plugins, but to compile and export them too as entirely new plugins, assuming you make enough custom changes to warrant doing so. (Ediquette tip: Always give credit to the developers whose code you expand from.)

h3(#sec2-3). Plugin help and options

Depending on the plugin, activating it may not make it usable without further effort. Plugins that provide you with specialised functionality through one or more custom tags, for example, will require you to fold those tags into your publishing architecture somehow. It's through use of those tags, and any other constructs the plugin may require, that the plugin will jump to life. To learn how a plugin is supposed to be used, click the "Help" link in the **Manage** column of the table.

Some plugins may also provide an "Options" link next to the "Help" link, which opens a special view. These options are neigher an **"Extensions":http://docs.textpattern.io/extensions/ panel nor Advanced preferences, exactly, but are nevertheless important for helping to make the plugin function as you may need it to.

If you read the plugin's Help information and find yourself still having trouble, that's the time to go to the plugin's "support thread":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=79. Known issues are often highlighted in the threads (tip: use Google to search long threads), or you can post with questions or issues you have.

h2(#sec3). Upgrading plugins

Upgrading a plugin is done the same way you first install one, as described earlier. Textpattern will know which plugin it is and overwrite the old plugin code accordingly with no additional input on your part.[4]

fn4. In the event you need to update a plugin you've edited, you may like to install "rvm_plugin_diff":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=19909 first, a plugin that helps you track down the lines of code you edited in other plugins so you don't lose track of them and can make the edits again if necessary. Keeping your own edited versions of plugins on Github is another way you could maintain your customised versions separate from the plugin developer's latest releases.

h2(#sec4). Plugin cache directory

Plugins that you install via the Admin → Plugins tab are inserted into the database. There is another method of installing a plugin that involves obtaining the plugin as a file in the "standard template format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_template.

Visit the "advanced_preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences tab and enter a folder path/name to use as your plugin cache directory. Make sure it exists on your server!

When you have saved the changes, you may upload (via FTP) plugins in the standard template format (_not_ the Base-64 method outlined above)into this nominated directory. Once uploaded, they will be available automatically and are “always on”, but otherwise behave in the same manner as regular plugins.

h3(sectionedit5#editing_and_publishing_plugins). Editing and publishing plugins

You can either edit plugin source code directly from the Plugins tab or use a third party tool such as the "plugin_template":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_template or the "ied_plugin_composer plugin":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=201350#p201350.

The plugin composer allows you to create, code and document plugins, then publish them in either conventional text format, compressed text format, or exported in the standard template format for sharing with developers or using in the "plugin cache directory":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences. Plugins in the cache can also be edited directly by the Composer.

Before embarking on your own plugin, it is worth following these steps:

# read the "plugin_vs_core":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_vs_core topic to understand the stance the Textpattern developers take on what should (and should not) be a core feature and what might work best as a plugin
# check a core tag does not do what you want already
# check a "plugin does not already exist":http://textpattern.org/archives?section=plugins that performs your intended feature
# assuming you still wish to go ahead with the plugin (and you don't already have a plugin prefix), "register one":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=registered_textpattern_developer_prefixes for your own use
# read the "Plugin Development Guidelines":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_development_guidelines for more on how to write plugins

h2(#sec6). Plugin zen habits

While plugins can do many things, the prudent (even zen) website owner — particularly the site architect — is encouraged to adopt a frugal plugin habit and become a Textpattern jedi. That is to say, only install plugins if while learning Textpattern you discover you really do need them. (Installing a bunch of plugins right off the bat is not a good way to learn Textpattern.) The zen habit favours two beneficial states. First, you master Textpattern by spending more time learning core capabilities. Second, fewer plugins means less need to update the ones you have, less likelihood of running into issues later when new Textpattern versions are released, and fewer third-party vectors to possibly exploit (thus better system security). Be one with the Force of the core.

Plugin zen good practice tips: Don't install plugins that you don't need right away, there's no point. Don't install and activate plugins you don't use right away, which creates a possible vector for hacker exploitation. Don't de-activate plugins you don't want to use and leave them installed (again, there's no point). Delete them.

