---
layout: document
category: administration
published: true
title: "User roles and associated privileges"
tags:
  - users 
  - roles
  - privileges
  - account types
---

h1. User roles and associated privileges

Textpattern provides several user roles out-of-the-box. These roles and their associated privileges are described here.

On this page:

* "Roles in terms of panel access":#sec1
* "Roles in terms of privileges":#sec2
** "Publisher":#sec2-1
** "Managing Editor":#sec2-2
** "Copy Editor":#sec2-3
** "Staff Writer":#sec2-4
** "Freelancer":#sec2-5
** "Designer":#sec2-6
** "None":#sec2-7

h2(#sec1). Roles in terms of panel access

The following table shows user role types versus admin-side panels.[1] If a role has access to a given panel, it's indicated with "X". (The primary regions -- **Content**, **Presentation**, and **Admin** -- are not actual panel locations so marked out with hyphens.)

|_.  |_. Publisher |_. Managing Editor |_. Copy Editor |_. Staff Writer |_. Freelancer |_. Designer |_. None[2] |
|_. Content | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |
|_. Articles | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Categories | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Comments | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Files | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Images | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Links | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Write | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Presentation | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |
|_. Forms | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Pages | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Sections | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Styles | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Admin | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |
|_. Diagnostics | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Import | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Plugins | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Basic, prefs | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Advanced, prefs | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Language, prefs | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|_. Users | X | X | X | X | X | X |  |
|_. Visitor logs | X |  |  |  |  |  |  |

fn1. Administrators are not shown but are the people who install and configure the Textpattern software on a web server. They are all-powerful, having access to all panels and every function.

fn2. "None":#sec2-7 is an actual role, but has no access to any panels.

h2(#sec2). Roles in terms of privileges

h3(#sec2-1). Publisher

The publisher role has the same rights and abilities as the administrator -- no restrictions to any location or feature -- with the sole exception that a publisher can not delete or demote the adminstrator account. In short, the publisher can:

* create, edit or delete any article, link or comment
* change article status
* edit site preferences
* access all site design areas
* edit sections and categories
* add and remove other user accounts (except the administrator)
* grant and restrict privileges

h3(#sec2-2). Managing editor

The managing editor has fewer rights than the publisher, but can still:

* edit and delete any article, link or comment
* change article status from **Pending** to **Live**
* edit site preferences
* access all site design areas
* edit sections and categories

h3(#sec2-3). Copy editor

The copy editor can't work on site structure, presentation, or change preferences. Copy editors can only:

* edit article, links, or comments
* edit HTML in Page template and Forms

h3(#sec2-4). Staff writer

* can create, edit, publish and delete own articles
* can upload images

h3(#sec2-5). Freelancer

* can create and edit own articles
* can change article status from Draft to Pending

h3(#sec2-6). Designer

* can edit Page HTML, Forms, and CSS

h3(#sec2-7). None

This option allows removing all privileges on a given user account without actually deleting the account from the CMS. This is a good option, for example, if you run a multi-author site of some kind, and an author leaves the collaboration effort/team. You can freeze their account so they can't add/modify/undo anything, while still keepiong their name on their published work.


