\n"mininav_tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tutorials

This section will describe how to back up your Textpattern installation.

In a nutshell what you will be doing is backing up your current installation (saving your database and installation files on your server or Hard Disk). Regular backups of your Database and Files is highly recommended, especially before making changes (e.g. upgrading to a new release) to your Textpattern installation.

Below are some way you can back up your Database and Files.

h3(sectionedit1#backing_up_with_phpmyadmin). Backing up with phpMyAdmin

In order to back up your database using phpMyAdmin is first to check and see if you have phpMyAdmin installed. phpMyAdmin is a tool written in PHP intended to handle the administration of MySQL over the Web. Currently it can create and drop databases, create/drop/alter tables, delete/edit/add fields, execute any SQL statement, manage keys on fields. Visit the "phpMyAdmin":http://www.phpmyadmin.net/home_page/index.php website to download if you dont have it installed, its free.

<ol>
<li>Login to phpMyAdmin, using the web address have were you installed it to.</li>
<li>In the left column you should see a drop down menu given you a list of your Database's you currenty have available to you. Select the database in which you setup during your installation</li>
<li><p>On the right side of the screen you should now be able to see a list of all the tables in database. At the top of the screen you should see</p>
bc. Structure, SQL, Search, Query, Export, Operations, and Drop


<p>You are going to want to select</p>
bc. Export


<p>.</p></li>
<li>In the box you will want to select all the tables that are related to Textpattern. IE:textpattern and the other tables with a txp_ prefix.</li>
<li>Select SQL as your as the Export option.</li>
<li>Under the SQL Options box there is no need to change anything so skip this step.</li>
<li><p>In the last box check the option</p>
bc. Save as file


<p>this well allow you to save your database backup to your hard disk for buring to a cd. Enter a filename in the</p>
bc. File name template


<p>box. Un-Check</p>
bc. remember template


<p>.</p></li>
<li>Now you can go ahead and select a compression method. And than click Go.</li>
</ol>

*Note:* Reading the "phpMyAdmin":http://www.phpmyadmin.net/home_page/index.php documentation, which has more detailed backup information, is suggested.

h3(sectionedit2#backing_up_with_rob_sable_rss_admin_db_manager_plugin). Backing up with Rob Sable rss_admin_db_manager Plugin

This is probably the easiest route to go, when it comes to backing up your Database. Rob Sable has made a great plugin that allows you to maintain the Textpattern database directly from the Textpattern Admin Interface. You can get Rob's plugin from his website "rss_admin_db_manager":http://www.wilshireone.com/textpattern-plugins/rss_admin_db_manager.

After you install the plugin you well see a new tab at the top of your screen between

bc. Admin


and

bc. View Site


, this is were you well access the db_manager.

<ol>
<li><p>Click on the</p>
bc. extensions


<p>tab and than click on the</p>
bc. db backup


<p>tab.</p></li>
<li>Under the text “Create a new backup of the beta database” select .sql file or gzipped file (Compressed File). By default these files well be stored on the server in the Files folder.</li>
<li>Open your FTP program and download the backed up .sql or gzipped file to your hard disk and burn to a cd.</li>
</ol>

h3(sectionedit3#backing_up_your_files_and_images). Backing up your Files and Images

Backing up your files and images is just as important as backing up your Database. Backing up your files and images is easy to do just by opening your FTP program and downloading your files and images directory to your hard disk and burning them onto a CD along side with your database back up.

