\n"mininav_troubleshooting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_troubleshooting

A *Publisher* can reset any user's password. Provided there's at least one publisher who can log in, ask them to reset your password for you.

h3(sectionedit1#resetting_a_password). Resetting a password

If you're the only user with "Publisher privileges":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=user_roles_and_permissions (or the only Textpattern user at all), you'll need to access the database directly to reset your password. Most web hosting accounts provide direct MySQL access using a program called phpMyAdmin, or via the command line. If you're not sure how to access either of these, ask your hosting company's tech support.

There are two main ways to do this.

h4(#via_the_command_line). Via the command line

With phpMyAdmin, or at the MySQL command prompt, run the following query:

bc. update txp_users set pass=password(lower('pass')) where name='user';


where

bc. pass


is the new password, and

bc. user


is the login username.

h4(#via_phpmyadmin). Via phpMyAdmin

<ol>
<li>Start phpMyAdmin. This may be done from a shell or your host's control panel</li>
<li>At the opening screen, select the database for your Textpattern install (e.g. userid_textpattern)</li>
<li>From the list of tables select txp_users. This should present a table structure and a selection of tabbed options</li>
<li>Select the *Browse* tab. This will display a query field and a list of users</li>
<li>Click on the small pencil (edit) icon next to the user ID entry you wish to edit. This will display a table for the record showing the fields and their current values. Note that only the password hash is displayed, not the plain text</li>
<li><p>In the function column for the</p>
bc. pass


<p>field, select PASSWORD from the drop down box. You may then delete the hash and enter a plaintext password in the corresponding value field. Letters in this field should be all lowercase. Make sure the box at the lower left says 'save' and click on the GO button. You will be returned to the previous screen which will display the SQL query you just created. The hash displayed opposite the user ID you selected should have changed (unless you used the exact same password)</p></li>
<li>Exit phpMyAdmin and login to Textpattern with your username and new password</li>
</ol>

h3(sectionedit2#changing_permission_level). Changing permission level

It has happened to people before that while learning the nature of different permission settings they accidentally set themselves at a lower permissions level than they intended to have; for example as Managing Editor instead of Publisher.

You can fix this situation, but you have to have access to a database management program like phpMyAdmin for the database involved. This is what you do:

# Open phpMyAdmin, select the appropriate database, and browse to the txp_users table
# Look for the row with your Textpattern account username, and find the column named “privs”
# Change it to the number “1” and save the changes

