\n"mininav_troubleshooting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_troubleshooting

(a.k.a. why is my site so slow?)

Normally, Textpattern is one of the fastest CMS platforms around. There are, however, a few circumstances that can cause performance issues. If you're experiencing slow page loading, this page should help.

h3(sectionedit1#runtime_vs_display_time). Runtime vs. Display Time

Set the Production Status to "Testing":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences#production_status and load a page. Textpattern records the time it takes to generate and send each page. View the HTML source and scroll to the bottom. You can check the *runtime* figure to distinguish between slowdowns during page generation, and those that occur afterwards (i.e. during page rendering)

On a properly configured web server with a normal load and typical Textpattern templates and content, expected ranges are:

* Runtime: 0.01 - 0.5 seconds
* Queries: 20 - 50
* Memory: 1500 - 3000 Kb

Values outside these ranges are not necessarily cause for alarm if your page templates are complex. Also bear in mind that the figures will be different for each page load, and will vary due to external factors like the traffic load on your web server. Try loading the page several times over a period of a few minutes and compare the results. A one-off anomaly probably means a temporarily overloaded server or network.

If you're experiencing consistently high numbers, here are some things to check.

h4(#runtime). Runtime

A runtime figure that regularly measures 1 second or more usually indicates one of a few things:

<ol>
<li>*DNS issues*: a slow or misconfigured DNS server at your web hosting company can cause high page runtimes. Usually this occurs in the Textpattern logging code. In "Advanced Preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences#use_dns3f, set 'Use DNS' to 'No', and see if that makes a difference. If not, try disabling logging altogether</li>
<li>*Plugins*: plugins aren't necessarily as efficient as Textpattern itself. If your performance problems coincide with the installation of a plugin, or occur only on a particular page template that invokes a plugin, try disabling it and see if there's a difference. If your page won't display properly without the plugin, try temporarily reverting to the default Textpattern "page template and form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=default_forms</li>
<li><p>*PHP code*: if you've included any PHP code in your page templates, whether directly in the template or indirectly via an</p>
bc. include()


<p>call or similar, try disabling it. In particular, check for any code that might try to fetch a file from an external server, e.g. by using a</p>
bc. <nowiki>http://..</nowiki>


<p>URL in an</p>
bc. fopen()


<p>or</p>
bc. include()


<p>call.</p></li>
<li>*MySQL issues*: MySQL doesn't have to run on the same physical machine as your web server. Some hosting companies run these on separate servers connected by a fast LAN connection, which is fine. However, if Textpattern and MySQL are on entirely different networks, performance will be unaviodably slow, since all MySQL queries and results must travel back and forth over a comparatively slow internet connection every time a Textpattern page is viewed. Other MySQL performance problems can be harder to diagnose. An overloaded MySQL server can slow down Textpattern - ask your hosting company if this could be the case</li>
<li><p>*Spam blacklist*: sometimes the built-in blacklist checking causes page slowdowns. Go to "Advanced Preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences#spam_blacklists_28comma-separated29 and remove</p>
bc. sbl.spamhaus.org


<p>from the *Spam blacklists* preference if it is there</p></li>
</ol>

h4(#queries_and_memory). Queries and Memory

A high number of queries, or excessive memory usage, is usually caused by a plugin or custom PHP code. As above, try disabling this code to see if it makes a difference. Plugins that produce a list of articles are the most likely culprits: some popular “archive” plugins are very inefficient, loading the entire database of articles into memory at once.

h3(sectionedit2#page_rendering). Page rendering

If your Runtime, Queries and Memory figures are all in or near the normal limits, but you're still experiencing slow page loading, the problem is almost certainly caused by the content of your page. Some things to check:

* *Javascript*: does your page include javascript code? Try disabling it
* *Counters and external stats* : are you using an image or javascript link to an offsite “hit counter”, stats service, or a local stats application like Shortstat? Try removing the link to see if it makes a difference.
* *Links to off-site objects*: does your page link to images, javascript, CSS or other objects on another web server? Do your pages include content from external sources such as Gravatars or similar? Any of these could be the culprit.
* *Advertisements*: banner, popup and text ads all work by loading content from another server. Try disabling them and measure the difference.
* *CSS*: certain CSS techniques can cause choppy page loading and scrolling. In particular, “fixed” background images and blocks can cause loading and scrolling problems. You may, however, consider installing the "rvm_css":http://vanmelick.com/txp plugin which can improve CSS performance considerably

h3(sectionedit3#improving_performance). Improving performance

If your Runtime/Queries/Memory figures are within normal limits, but you'd like to improve performance, here are the best methods to use:

<ul>
<li>*Minimize plugins*: the more active plugins, the more code must be loaded, parsed and run. Don't use a plugin when you can achieve the same results with a built-in tag. And make sure you disable any plugins you no longer use.</li>
<li><p>*Simplify your code*: do your templates use complex nested conditionals, PHP code, or forms within forms? Simplify them. In particular, try to reduce the number of</p>
bc. <txp:...>


<p>tags that require database queries. If you're not sure, remove tags one at a time and watch the Queries count.</p></li>
<li>*Caching*: sometimes pages are necessarily complex, and there are limits to server performance. If you have a popular site that's not fast enough, try a caching plugin such as "asy_jpcache":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=54333</li>
</ul>

The important thing with any performance tweak is to *change only one thing at a time*, and always measure the results. If something has no real effect, change it back and try something else. You'll almost certainly find that one or two changes will have a large effect, while others will be insignificant.

