\n"mininav_tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tutorials

This tutorial describes how to _manually_ upgrade your existing Textpattern installation to the latest, stable release (currently "txp_current_version":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=txp_current_version). In brief, you'll backup your current installation, overwrite your existing installation with new package files, update your "language_preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=language_preferences, and address any problems indicated in "diagnostics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=diagnostics.

If you're looking to change an install version to something other than the newest stable release, see "upgrading_downgrading_nightlies_and_bleeding_edge":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=upgrading_downgrading_nightlies_and_bleeding_edge.

h3(sectionedit1#step_1get_the_new_package). Step 1: Get the New Package

Go to "textpattern.com/download":http://textpattern.com/download/ and download the zip package of the latest version (currently "txp_current_version":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=txp_current_version) to your local machine. Unzip the package into a folder on your local drive. Give the folder a meaningful name like <em>textpattern-"txp_current_version":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=txp_current_version</em>, for example.

h3(sectionedit2#step_2backup). Step 2: Backup

As with any system upgrade, you'll want to be sure you can fall back on your existing install should there ever be a problem; thus, you should back up your server files and create a database dump file (.sql) before upgrading.

h4(#duplicate_the_existing_txp_file_tree). Duplicate the Existing Txp File Tree

You must make a copy of your

bc. config.php


file as a minimum

Make a copy of the current system "file tree":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_current_version_file_tree (folders and files of the Textpattern installation). The easiest way to do this is to log onto the server using FTP or SFTP, create a new folder called _txp-current_, for example, and copy the existing system file tree into this new folder (leave the file tree structure the same). Alternatively simply duplicate your existing Textpattern dir and name it Textpattern_OLD. Upload the new Textpattern dir and then copy your config.php file from the Textpattern_OLD *prior* to running the Update.

h4(#create_a_database_dump_file_an_sql_export). Create a Database Dump File (an .sql export)

Log in to the *phpMyAdmin* database administration panel for your site (different web hosts have different access routes), and then follow these steps:

# Select the database running the current Textpattern site.
# In the resulting main content area, click _Export_ at the top of the screen.
# You should be able to use the defaults as they already are, just make sure you tick the _Save as file_ box at the bottom of the screen.
# Click _Go_ button.

The .sql dump file will mostly likely be saved to your desktop. Using FTP/SFTP again, you could optionally copy the file into the backup folder you just created to keep everything together.

You now have a full backup of your files and database. If things don't work out in the upgrade process, you can simply replace the server files and, if necessary, re-import the old database dump file in phpMyAdmin again (using *_Import_* instead of _Export_). If you do have problems, you might consider running a development (sister) site of your main site and try upgrading there first.

h3(sectionedit3#step_3install_the_new_textpattern_files). Step 3: Install the New Textpattern Files

It is strongly advised to log out of the Textpattern admin interface before upgrading

Using FTP/SFTP again, navigate to the folder you created in step 1 and copy the following files from there to your server, overwriting any previous files:

<ol>
<li><p>Copy the files</p>
bc. .htaccess


<p>,</p>
bc. css.php


<p>, and</p>
bc. index.php


<p>. The README.txt and HISTORY.txt are optional.</p></li>
<li><p>Copy any folders you are using, for example</p>
bc. rpc


<p>and</p>
bc. sites


<p>. You do not usually need to copy</p>
bc. files


<p>and</p>
bc. images


<p>unless otherwise directed because you will already have done so when installing a prior release.</p></li>
<li><p>Copy the contents of the</p>
bc. textpattern


<p>folder to the server's</p>
bc. textpattern


<p>folder. You may exclude the</p>
bc. setup


<p>directory, since it is only used for first-time installations.</p></li>
</ol>

It is important that you make sure all three _index.php_, _css.php_ and _.htaccess_ files transfer over. This shouldn't be a problem, but sometimes in the case of the _.htaccess_ file it does not show up in certain FTP clients (it's usally there but just not visible). In the case of the _.htaccess_ file or _/lib/admin_config.php_, if you had any customizations (such as mod_rewrite changes or custom permissions), be sure to add them back so you don't lose that functionality. When in doubt, compare your backed-up copy of the file against the new one.

Ensure your existing

bc. config.php


file is still inside your

bc. textpattern


folder on the server. This rarely changes between releases; if any changes are required or options become available they are documented in the README.txt file.

If you are running an Apache web server and wish to prohibit direct access to your downloadable files (i.e. by someone manually entering

bc. <nowiki>http://site.com/files/name_of_file</nowiki>


) you may rename the

bc. /files/.htaccess-dist


file to

bc. /files/.htaccess


.

For better security, however, we recommend moving the entire folder and its contents _outside_ your web-accessible root folder. Once you have relocated it, you can inform Textpattern of its location via the *File directory path* Advanced Preference when you log back into the admin side.

h3(sectionedit4#step_4update). Step 4: Update

Open a web browser and go to the "admin-side":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=admin-side location. Log in. That's it. Easy, huh? There are no update scripts to run or anything else; by simply going to the normal admin-side location, Textpattern will recognize the need to update and do so automatically.

h3(sectionedit5#step_5fine-tune). Step 5: Fine-tune

When Textpattern updates, you will be taken by default to "language_preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=language_preferences. Once there, update your chosen language files as necessary (highlighted). Then go to the "diagnostics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=diagnostics tab and troubleshoot any noted issues.

Some notices are not always problems, _per se_, but may only appear to indicate some difference in the system since your upgrade. When in doubt about an error message, first check "diagnostics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=diagnostics to see if it's documented, if that doesn't help, ask in the "How do I... forum":http://forum.textpattern.com.

h3(sectionedit6#step_6remove_unnecessary_files). Step 6: Remove Unnecessary Files

After installing or upgrading Textpattern, you only need to delete the _setup_ folder (_.../textpattern/setup_). This folder and its contained files are not used once Textpattern is installed. (If you do not do this before checking your "diagnostics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=diagnostics in step 5, you'll see a diagnostic warning reminding you to do it. The error will disappear when the folder is removed.)

The _setup_ folder is only used for _new_ installations, not upgrades, thus it's technically not necessary to add this folder from the latest, stable package. However, don't go out of your way to be clinical, simply upgrade using the full package and then delete the folder afterwards. It's easier all-around.

h3(sectionedit7#step_7debugging_check). Step 7: Debugging check

This step is highly recommended, but optional. It is best to do this on a development server to avoid showing your users error messages. Alternatively, put your site into maintenance mode, using the "rvm_maintenance plugin":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=24708.

Change your site's "Production Status":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences#production_status to “debugging”. Go through the live site (every page, if possible), looking for error messages. Any such messages will be clearly visible at the top of the page. The upgrade may result in notices or errors relating to deprecated tags or attributes. These should be easy to correct.

If you do need to update tag or attribute names, the "smd_where_used plugin":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=27493 is a great help for quickly finding all instances of a given tag or attribute.

