\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop

"main_page":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=en:main_page &#124; "Plugin Archive Instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_archive &#124; "plugins_alphabetical_by_name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_alphabetical_by_name &#124; "plugins_grouped_by_purpose":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_grouped_by_purpose

h3(sectionedit1#overview_of_plugin). Overview of Plugin

Bringing the "Speller Pages":http://spellerpages.sourceforge.net/ javascript based spell checker to Textpattern. This plugin adds two little links, one for spell checking the contents of the article body, and one for spell checking the contents of the article excerpt. By clicking on one of these links, you will initiate a spell check of the selected section.

h3(sectionedit2#general_instructions). General Instructions

For this plugin to work correctly, you will need to download the "Speller Pages":http://spellerpages.sourceforge.net/ script and upload it to the base of your Textpattern site. Hopefully in future versions, this dependancy will be resolved, but as for now, these files are required. Once these files have been uploaded, you need only activate the plugin for it to work.

As well, your server will need to have

bc. [[http://aspell.sourceforge.net/|aspell]]


installed. Most hosts should have it installed on their servers, and if not, hosts generally won't have a problem with installing it.

h3(sectionedit3#examples_of_use). Examples of Use

To use this plugin, all that needs to be done is follow the above instructions and activate the plugin. After activation, the rest is automatic.

h3(sectionedit4#credit). Credit

This plugin is based off the "hack":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=109821 by Champak.

h3(sectionedit5#previous_versions). Previous Versions

* "ako_spell_cheker-0_1.txt0.1":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_spell_cheker-0_1.txt0.1 (05/01/06)

