\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop

"main_page":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=en:main_page &#124; "Plugin Archive Instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_archive &#124; "plugins_alphabetical_by_name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_alphabetical_by_name &#124; "plugins_grouped_by_purpose":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_grouped_by_purpose

h3(sectionedit1#overview_of_plugin). Overview of Plugin

Conditionally include enclosed text based on the user agent of the browser viewing the page.

h3(sectionedit2#general_instructions). General Instructions

(needed)

h3(sectionedit3#examples_of_use). Examples of Use

The following will only display in Internet Explorer 5.5:

bc. <txp:ako_ifBrowser checkfor="ie55">Only IE 5.5!</txp:ako_ifBrowser>


The following will only display in Opera 6 or Opera 8 the first time a user views the page in said browser

bc. <txp:ako_ifBrowser checkfor="op6,op8" cookie="1">Only Opera 6 or Opera 8</txp:ako_ifBrowser>


The following will only output the user agent string of the browser that is being used to view the site:

bc. <txp:ako_ifBrowserUA />


h3(sectionedit4#tags). Tags

<ul>
<li>cookie - This tag will set a cookie the first time a user views the page, and will only display the enclosed text the first time a user views the page. 1 = on, 0 = off. By default, this behaviour is off (0).</li>
<li><p>viewua- This tag will output the user agent of the browser that is being used to view the page. 1 = on, 0 = off. By defualt it is set to off (0). Please note that if this attribute is set to on (1) *the plugin will* *_only_* *output the user agent. Nothing else.* This also does the same thing as calling</p>
bc. <txp:ako_ifBrowserUA />


<p>.</p></li>
<li>checkfor - This is the one and only tag. This decides which browsers will have the enclosed text viewable. You &#42;must&#42; use the codes bellow for this tag. Otherwise, it will not work at all.
<ul>
<li>bt - Bots (includes Google, Yahoo!, MSN, and most other bots)</li>
<li>cm - Camino</li>
<li>ch - Chimera</li>
<li>fb - Firebird</li>
<li>ff - Firefox</li>
<li>ic - iCab</li>
<li>ie4 - Internet Explorer 4.0, _Windows_</li>
<li>ie50 - Internet Explorer 5.0, _Windows_</li>
<li>ie52 - Internet Explorer 5.2, _Mac_</li>
<li>ie55 - Internet Explorer 5.5, _Windows_</li>
<li>ie60 - Internet Explorer 6.0, _Windows_</li>
<li>ie70 - Internet Explorer 7.0b, _Windows_</li>
<li>kq - Konquerer</li>
<li>lk - Links</li>
<li>lx - Lynx</li>
<li>mz - Mozilla</li>
<li>ns48 - Netscape 4.8</li>
<li>ns7 - Netscape 7</li>
<li>ns8 - Netscape 8</li>
<li>op6 - Opera 6</li>
<li>op7 - Opera 7</li>
<li>op8 - Opera 8</li>
<li>op85 - Opera 8.5</li>
<li>ow - Omniweb</li>
<li>px - Pheonix</li>
<li>ps2 - PlayStation Portable</li>
<li>sf85 - Safari v85 (1.0)</li>
<li>sf100 - Safari v100 (1.1)</li>
<li>sf125 - Safari v125 (1.2)</li>
<li>sf412 - Safari v412 (2.0)</li>
<li>ur - Unregognized browser</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

h3(sectionedit5#previous_versions). Previous Versions

* "ako_if_browser-0_1.txt0.1":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_if_browser-0_1.txt0.1 (09/09/05)

