\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop

"main_page":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=en:main_page &#124; "Plugin Archive Instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_archive &#124; "plugins_alphabetical_by_name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_alphabetical_by_name &#124; "plugins_grouped_by_purpose":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins_grouped_by_purpose

h3(sectionedit1#overview_of_plugin). Overview of Plugin

A dynamic portable navigation creator. What's it do? Well...

<ul>
<li><p>Creates a primary</p>
bc. div


<p>(optionally).</p></li>
<li><p>Inside the</p>
bc. div


<p>, a heading is added for the nav bar (optionally).</p></li>
<li><p>Creates a</p>
bc. ul


<p>to hold the nav bar.</p></li>
<li><p>Goes through given urls and names of pages and dynmically adds them as</p>
bc. li


<p>'s</p></li>
<li>bc. class="active"


<p>is automatically added to the current page's</p>
bc. a


<p>tag (or optionally,</p>
bc. li


<p>tag).</p></li>
</ul>

h3(sectionedit2#general_instructions). General Instructions

(needed)

h3(sectionedit3#examples_of_use). Examples of Use

The simplest form is this:

bc. <txp:ako_nav name="home,about,contact" url="/,/about,/contact" />


it will produce something like this:

bc. <div>
<h2>Navigation</h2>
    <ul>
        <li><a href="/">home</a></li>
        <li><a href="/about">about</a></li>
        <li><a href="/contact">contact</a></li>
    </ul>
</div>


Add some of the tags below to get a lot more creative.

h3(sectionedit4#tags). Tags

* Required
** *name* - This is a list of page names, delimited by commas (and no spaces), unless the “delim” attribute is set as something else.
** *url* - This is a list of page url's, following the same order as the page names, and also delimited by commas (and no spaces), unless the “delim” attribute is set as something else.
* Optional
** (needed)

h3(sectionedit5#previous_versions). Previous Versions

* "ako_nav-0_1.txt0.1":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_1.txt0.1 (02/13/05)
* "ako_nav-0_2.txt0.2":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_2.txt0.2 (02/13/05)
* "ako_nav-0_3.txt0.3":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_3.txt0.3 (04/12/05)
* "ako_nav-0_4.txt0.4":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_4.txt0.4 (05/21/05)
* "ako_nav-0_5.txt0.5":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_5.txt0.5 (06/24/05)
* "ako_nav-0_6.txt0.6":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_6.txt0.6 (06/24/05)
* "ako_nav-0_7.txt0.7":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_7.txt0.7 (07/06/05)
* "ako_nav-0_8.txt0.8":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_8.txt0.8 (09/06/05)
* "ako_nav-0_9.txt0.9":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=file:ako_nav-0_9.txt0.9 (10/09/05)

