\n &#42; Added 'version' field to txp_prefs

<ul>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:article_id />


<p>tag to output the current article id</p></li>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:article_image />/<code> tag


<p>&lt;/code&gt; &#42; Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:comments_count />


<p>tag</p></li>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:meta_keywords />


<p>and</p>
bc(code). <txp:meta_author />


<p>tags for outputting metadata in the page</p>
bc(code). <head>

</li>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). break="li"


<p>and</p>
bc(code). wraptag="ul"


<p>option for recent_comments</p></li>
<li>Added 10 custom fields for articles</li>
<li>After moving off the front page when paging through articles, article dates now use the archived date format</li>
<li>An URL-only title, if created, is now added to an articles permanent link</li>
<li>Closed up a nasty but difficult-to-exploit security hole involving variables passed by GET (thanks to Sencer for finding this)</li>
<li>Comment previews are now shown inline with the article to which they are attached</li>
<li>Extended the time offset options in prefs to cover from -23 to +24 hours</li>
<li>Link urls will now accept any schema (ftp, https, mailto, etc)</li>
<li>Pinging textpattern.com when an article is published is now an admin_config option</li>
<li>Plugins are now processed using a method that requires no file inclusion, so they should work even in PHP safe_mode</li>
<li>The plugin list now displays plugin versions</li>
<li>Upgrading a plugin now works as expected</li>
</ul>

Also, it's GPL.

