\n &#42; Added YYYY-DD-MM to date formats

<ul>
<li><p>Added 'month' parameter to</p>
bc. <txp:article_custom />

</li>
<li><p>Added 'keywords' parameter to</p>
bc. <txp:article_custom />

</li>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc. <txp:excerpt />


<p>to useful tags</p></li>
<li>Added an option never to display commenter email addresses</li>
<li><p>Added new conditional tag pairs</p>
bc. <txp:if_individual_article>


<p>and</p>
bc. <txp:if_article_list>

</li>
<li>Added error correction that checks if no page template has been assigned to a section</li>
<li>Added option to exclude author email address from atom feeds</li>
<li>Added the ability to record keywords for specific articles</li>
<li>Added the ability to toggle whether or not Textile is used on articles and excerpts</li>
<li>Articles may now be published with a timestamp from any damn century</li>
<li>Commenters can no longer submit blank comments</li>
<li><p>Deprecated</p>
bc. <txp:paging_link>


<p>in favour of two new tags,</p>
bc. <txp:newer>


<p>and</p>
bc. <txp:older>


<p>. These can be placed anywhere on a page where multiple articles are listed, and will page accurately through result sets</p></li>
<li>Fixed a problem where articles set to be published in the future were showing up in Recent Articles lists</li>
<li>Fixed a problem where Textile was turning ampersands into garbage characters in link descriptions</li>
<li>Fixed a variable misnaming that was causing all comments to be emailed to authors, even if this was turned off in prefs</li>
<li>Fixed erroneous double-encoding of entities in link descriptions</li>
<li>Implemented hierarchical categories: article, image and link categories can now have parents and children</li>
<li>Moved 'logs' tab from 'content' to 'admin' area</li>
<li><p>Search results now use a form called</p>
bc. search_results


<p>, with appropriate placeholder tags, instead of nested html</p></li>
<li>There is now an option in admin_config.php to use excerpts or full article text in XML feeds</li>
<li>When creating a new article, section and category selections were being lost when toggling html and preview; this is now fixed</li>
<li>You can now put newer/older paging links anywhere on the page</li>
</ul>

