\n

h4(#classification). Classification

The

bc. zem_event_categories


tag is used as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag. Used in a zem_event_list form or wraptags, it returns the event categories associated with a specific event.

h4(#syntax). Syntax

The _zem_event_categories_ tag has the following syntactic structure...

bc. <txp:zem_event_categories />


h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (note: attributes are *case sensitive*):

*&lt;code&gt;*type=“*_type text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 event type. Default is

bc. email


. *&lt;code&gt;*field=“*_field text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc. categories


. *&lt;code&gt;*break=“*_tag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*breakclass=“*_class text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML class to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*wraptag=“*_wraptag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used as the wraptag, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*class=“*_class name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 CSS class attribute, default is

bc. **zem_event_categories**


. *&lt;code&gt;*link”=*_0 or 1_”&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc. **1**


. *&lt;code&gt;*section”=*_section text_”&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc. **current section**


.

h4(#examples). Examples

h5(#example_1basic_container_tag_usage). Example 1: Basic container tag usage

Generates a list of events by name and an ordered list of associated categories.

bc. <txp:zem_event_list>
<fieldset>
   <p class="zem_event_name">
   <txp:zem_event_name label="Event!" /><br /> 
   <b> Current categories:</b>
   </p> 
  <ol><txp:zem_event_categories break="li" /></ol>
</fieldset>
</txp:zem_event_list>


