\n

h4(#classification). Classification

The

bc. zem_article_event


tag can be used as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag or a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag. It will take a form attribute as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag as well as other attributes. When used as a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag the contained statements are executed recursively as the "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag's form.

h4(#syntax). Syntax

The _zem_article_event_ tag has the following syntactic structure...

bc. <txp:zem_article_event />


h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (note: attributes are *case sensitive*):

*&lt;code&gt;*label=“*_label text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Label for the top of the list. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*labeltag=“*_labeltag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Independent wraptag for label for the top of the list. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*limit=“*_integer_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Maximum number of listed events. Default is

bc. empty


. *&lt;code&gt;*break=“*_tag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*breakclass=“*_class text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML class to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*wraptag=“*_wraptag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used as the wraptag, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*class=“*_class name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 CSS class attribute, default is

bc. **zem_article_event**


. *&lt;code&gt;*form=“*_Form Name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Form to be used. Default is

bc. **zem_event_display**


.

h4(#examples). Examples

h5(#example_1zem_event_display_form_default). Example 1: zem_event_display form (default)

bc. <txp:zem_event_permlink wraptag="" >
  <txp:zem_event_name label="Event" wraptag="" />
</txp:zem_event_permlink>
<txp:zem_event_date label="Date" wraptag="" />
<txp:zem_event_time label="Time" wraptag="" />


