\n

h4(#classification). Classification

The

bc. zem_event_permlink


tag can be used as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag or a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag. When used as a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag the contained text is used as the linktext. A linktext attribute can be used when the tags usage is "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag. Returns the article's permanent url.

h4(#syntax). Syntax

The _zem_event_permlink_ tag has the following syntactic structure...

bc. <txp:zem_event_permlink /> or 
<txp:zem_event_permlink>... contained text ...</txp:zem_event_permlink>


h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (note: attributes are *case sensitive*):

*&lt;code&gt;*type=“*_type text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 event type. Default is

bc. permlink


. *&lt;code&gt;*field=“*_field name(internal use)_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc. article_id


. *&lt;code&gt;*wraptag=“*_wraptag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used as the wraptag, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*class=“*_class name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 CSS class attribute, default is

bc. **zem_event_permlink**


. *&lt;code&gt;*linktext=“*_text for link_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Link text for single tag usage, default is

bc. **NULL**


.

h4(#examples). Examples

h5(#example_1zem_event_display_form_default). Example 1: zem_event_display form (default)

bc. <txp:zem_event_permlink wraptag="" >
  <txp:zem_event_name label="Event" wraptag="" />
</txp:zem_event_permlink>
<txp:zem_event_date label="Date" wraptag="" />
<txp:zem_event_time label="Time" wraptag="" />


