\n"mininav&#95;troubleshooting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_troubleshooting

h3(sectionedit1#the_basics). The Basics

Use the "feed validator":http://feedvalidator.org/ if you suspect a feed problem. If the validator indicates that your feed is invalid, then please post its messages *verbatim* in your support request. Also, the URL you submit to the feed validator is your feed URL, not your homepage URL  -  the feed validator does not auto-detect feeds.

Post your Diagnostics results and a feed URL. If there's a specific feed which is malfunctioning, post its URL if at all possible. If you're having problems on an intranet server, can you replicate the problem on a public server? It will help those who are troubleshooting to be able to see what's really going on.

Some other avenues of exploration:

*If the feed validator reports you have a missing &lt;code&gt;description&lt;/code&gt; element*
 Make sure there's something entered in the “Site slogan” field in your "basic&#95;preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences *If your feeds are empty or don't contain the right articles*
 Check the “Syndicate?” option, found on the "sections":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=sections tab. Sections that have the “Syndicate?” option turned off *will not show up* in your feeds *If your browser tries to download the feed when the feed's link is clicked*
 Depending on your browser, this is the correct behaviour. More likely than not, your browser is not capable of displaying XML. As the feeds are sent with the correct MIME type, your browser offers to download the file, rather than just displaying the raw content. This is the correct behavior, and your feed should work in a proper feed aggregator. *If you want to set up feed autodetection*
 You'll need to add tags like the following to the

bc(code). <head>


of your main page:

bc(code). <txp:feed_link format="link" flavor="rss" />


or

bc(code). <txp:feed_link format="link" flavor="atom" />


