\n"mininav_core_function_reference":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_core_function_reference

h3(sectionedit1#description). Description

array "safe_rows_start":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows_start ( string _$things_, string _$table_, string _$where_, boolean _$debug_ = “” _)_

Returns a MySQL result resource.

h3(sectionedit2#parameters). Parameters

*things*
 comma-separated list of columns to select *table*
 Textpattern table name, without any installation-specific prefix *where*
 MySQL

bc(code). WHERE


statement, without the

bc(code). WHERE


keyword *debug*
 If true, "dmp()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=dmp the query even when global debug mode is off

h3(sectionedit3#return_values). Return Values

Returns a MySQL result resource, or

bc(code). FALSE


on failure.

h3(sectionedit4#changelog). Changelog

h3(sectionedit5#examples). Examples

bc(code). $result = safe_rows_start('name, RealName', 'txp_users', 1);
while ($r = nextRow($result)) {
    extract($r);
    $out[$name] = $RealName
}
return $out;    // user full names keyed by login name


h3(sectionedit6#see_also). See Also

* "safe_rows()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows
* "nextRow()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_row

h3(sectionedit7#notes). Notes

The _$where_ parameter is required, so you must set it to a positive value such as

bc(code). TRUE


or

bc(code). 1


when you don't need an actual

bc(code). WHERE


clause.

"nextRow()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_row is a Textpattern function for iterating over the result resource. It automatically frees the resource after the last row has been retrieved.

