\n"mininav_core_function_reference":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_core_function_reference

h3(sectionedit1#description). Description

string "safe_query":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_query ( string _$q = “”_, bool _$debug = “”_, bool _$unbuf = “”_ )

Execute a query and return the result.

h3(sectionedit2#parameters). Parameters

*q*
 MySQL query *debug*
 If true, "dmp()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=dmp $q even when global debug mode is off *unbuf*
 If true, use _"mysql_unbuffered_query()":http://us2.php.net/manual/en/function.mysql-unbuffered-query.php_ instead of _"mysql_query()":http://us2.php.net/manual/en/function.mysql-query.php_

h3(sectionedit3#return_values). Return Values

Returns the query result (see Notes), or

bc(code). FALSE


on failure.

h3(sectionedit4#changelog). Changelog

* First release "v1.0RC1":http://code.google.com/p/textpattern/source/browse/releases/1.0RC1/
* changes ...

h3(sectionedit5#examples). Examples

bc(code). $t1 = safe_pfx('txp_category');
$t2 = safe_pfx('textpattern');
$sql = "select distinct name from $t1 join $t2 on name=category1";
$rs = safe_query($sql);


h3(sectionedit6#see_also). See Also

"safe_pfx()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_pfx

h3(sectionedit7#notes). Notes

For simple database calls it is better to use the higher-level functions:

* "safe_row()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_row
* "safe_rows()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows
* "safe_rows_start()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows_start
* "safe_upsert()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_upsert
* "safe_delete()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_delete

etc.

When using "safe_query()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_query you should generally use "safe_pfx()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_pfx to prepare the query.

For

bc(code). SELECT


queries the result is a MySQL result resource which can be passed to Textpattern's "nextRow()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_row function. For most other types of query the result is

bc(code). TRUE


on success or

bc(code). FALSE


on failure.

