\n"Getting Started":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=getting_started_with_textpattern &#124; "Intermediate/Advanced Topics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=intermediate_and_advanced_topics &#124; "Designer/Developer Interests":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=designer_and_developer_interests &#124; "Tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=alphabetical_tag_listing &#124; "tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=tutorials &#124; "article&#95;contributions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article_contributions

h3(sectionedit1#overview). Overview

This page is a listing of Textpattern articles that were originally published elsewhere on the Web and generiously contributed to the wiki for expansion and/or translation. It is up to the contributing authors as to what extent they want their articles modified, which would be in relation to any copyrights they have declared on their respective site. Some idea of what this means:

* Complete hand-overs would mean articles are open to rewrites, expansion, and translation in the wiki as time goes by.
* Partial editing to make the articles more clear, whether grammatically, conceptually, succinctly, etc.
* No changes at all, but the article can be translated into any language outside of its originally published language.

In all cases, *article modifications and translations must take place here in the wiki*, not on any personal Web site outside of the original authors. Again, copyright must be adhered to, and original authors have the right to follow up on it. (*Authors, if you contribute an article here, please ensure your copyright intentions are clear.*)

*To Users and Editors:*

These articles are generously donated to enhance understanding about Textpattern. However, they would not exist at all if not for the initial writing efforts behind them. Please give the original authors credit by keeping them noted next to their article contributions, and provide a link to both their Web site and/or originally published article.

h3(sectionedit2#article_contributions_index). Article Contributions Index

If your contributing an article, ensure it is listed under the correct section.

h4(#open_to_complete_rewrites_expansions_and_translation). Open to Complete Rewrites, Expansions, and Translation

* "textpattern&#95;101":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern_101  -  Originally authored by
* "textpattern&#95;121-a":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern_121-a  -  Originally authored by
* "textpattern&#95;121-b":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern_121-b  -  Originally authored by

h4(#open_to_partial_editing_and_translation). Open to Partial Editing and Translation

If your contributing an article to this section, please indicate the editing limitations that others should respect.

* -
* -

h4(#open_to_translations_only). Open to Translations Only

*Authors:* Contributions to this list should link to the originally published article in your given language. Please indicate next to your articles any specific exceptions you want recognized (for example if the article is already published elsewhere in a second+ language, or if rights for a given language are already granted to another third-party), or provide a link to where translators can read more specifically your copyright policies.

*Translators:* Use this _Article Contributions_ page as a launch point for translating the articles in the wiki; in other words, translate this page first, and then begin translating any of the articles below. See "language&#95;support":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=language_support for how-to info, and the "FAQ Translation Index":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=faq_index as an example.

* "Understanding Textpattern Building Blocks":http://wion.com/journal/understanding-textpattern-building-blocks original article by Destry Wion (offered 7 January 2006).
* "Textpattern Building Block Mechanics":http://wion.com/journal/textpattern-building-block-mechanics original article by Destry Wion (offered 30 May 2006).
* "A Core Textpattern Technique Addressing Internationalization Interests":http://wion.com/journal/core-txp-technique-for-i18n-interests original article by Destry Wion (offered 14 Nov 2006)

