\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:author />


The "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author tag is a _single_ tag that is used to return the name of the author of the currently displayed article.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#link=“boolean”*
 Make text a link to the author's posts. Values:

bc(code). 0


(no) or

bc(code). 1


(yes). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section name”*
 Only link to articles from the named section. Default: unset. *"this&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#this_section=“boolean”*
 Only link to other articles from the same section as the current article. Values:

bc(code). 0


(no) or

bc(code). 1


(yes). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“boolean”*
 Whether to display the author's real name (1) or login name (0). Default: 1.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1link_to_list_of_author_s_articles). Example 1: Link to list of author's articles

The author's name in this article form is a hyperlink to a list of articles by this author.

<pre class="code">
&lt;h1&gt;&lt;txp:title /&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;

&lt;txp:body /&gt;

&lt;p class=&quot;author-date&quot;&gt;
Posted By: &lt;txp:author link=&quot;1&quot; /&gt; @ &lt;txp:posted /&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "posted":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=posted, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title, "body":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=body

h4(#example_2author_landing_page). Example 2: Author landing page

Display the author's name above a list of articles by that author when visiting

bc(code). site.com/author/Author+Name


URLs.

bc(code). <txp:if_author>
   <h1>Articles by author: <txp:author /></h1>
   <txp:article form="article_listing" limit="5" />
</txp:if_author>


Other tags used: "if&#95;author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_author, "article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_450). Version 4.5.0

* Permitted the tag to be used on author list landing pages

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li><p>Added the</p>
bc(code). title


<p>attribute.</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_404). Version 4.0.4

<ul>
<li>bc(code). section


<p>,</p>
bc(code). this_section


<p>added.</p></li>
</ul>

