\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:breadcrumb />


The "breadcrumb":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=breadcrumb tag is a _single_ tag which is used to create "breadcrumb navigation":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadcrumb_trail. It provides either hyperlinked navigation, or plain text positional display, any time you are _not_ on the Home page.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#link=“value”*
 Whether to hyperlink breadcrumbs. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no). Default:

bc(code). 1


. *"linkclass":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#linkclass=“class name”*
 HTML class attribute applied to the breadcrumb links. Default: unset. *"separator":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#separator=“value”*
 Character to be used as the breadcrumb separator. Default:

bc(code).  Â» 


. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“boolean”*
 Whether to display the title or not. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no, display name). Default:

bc(code). 0


.

"common&#95;attributes&#95;header":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_attributes_header

"attribute&#95;label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attribute_label "attributes&#95;wraptag&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attributes_wraptag_class

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_hyperlinked_breadcrumb_trail). Example 1: Display a hyperlinked breadcrumb trail

bc(code). <txp:breadcrumb label="Navigation" separator="::" link="1" wraptag="p" />


Provides hyperlinks to sections or categories in a breadcrumb style, linking back to your home page.

Breadcrumbs are not displayed on the “Default” section of your site

h4(#example_2display_a_text_only_breadcrumb_trail). Example 2: Display a text only breadcrumb trail

bc(code). <txp:breadcrumb label="Navigation" separator=":" link="0" wraptag="p" />


Provides a breadcrumb guide that reflects where a user is within the site's navigation.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). sep


<p>attribute deprecated and renamed</p>
bc(code). separator

</li>
</ul>

h4(#version_450). Version 4.5.0

<ul>
<li><p>Default class name</p>
bc(code). noline


<p>for linkclass removed, now unset.</p></li>
</ul>

