\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:category_list />


The "category&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category_list tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of linked categories.

h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"active&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#active_class=“class name” (Only works in the _single_ tag without the &lt;code&gt;form&lt;/code&gt; attribute. For setting an active class in the _container_ tag see example 3.)*
 "HTML class attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/global.html#adef-class to be applied to the “active” or current link in a list. Default: unset. *"categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#categories=“category name(s)”*
 Comma-separated list of categories to include, displayed in the order specified (unless overridden by

bc(code). sort


attribute). Use category names not Titles here  -  note that Textpattern automatically converts the names to lower case and converts spaces to hyphens when they are created Default: unset (all categories). *"children":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#children=“boolean”*
 Can limit the list depth to one level below the parent category. Values:

bc(code). 0


(no children, i.e. only show one level below the parent) or

bc(code). 1


(all nested categories). Default:

bc(code). 1


*"exclude":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#exclude=“category name(s)”*
 List of category names which will be excluded from the list.

bc(code). categories


takes precendence over

bc(code). exclude


. Default: unset. *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use the specified form to process each included category. *"parent":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#parent=“category name”*
 Return only specified category and its “children” categories. *"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section name”*
 Link to specified section. Default: unset, resulting in links without section restriction. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). id


bc(code). name


bc(code). type


bc(code). parent


bc(code). title


bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand) Default:

bc(code). name asc


. *"this&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#this_section=“boolean”*
 Link to currently active section (overrides

bc(code). section


attribute). Values:

bc(code). 0


(no) or

bc(code). 1


(yes). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“category type”*
 Available values:

bc(code). article


,

bc(code). image


,

bc(code). link


,

bc(code). file


. Default:

bc(code). article


.

"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit1#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1labelled_category_list). Example 1: Labelled category list

bc(code). <txp:category_list label="Categories" wraptag="p" break="br" />


h4(#example_2as_an_unordered_list). Example 2: As an unordered list

bc(code). <txp:category_list break="li" wraptag="ul" />


*Styles could go this way*

bc(code). .category_list {
     list-style-type:none;
}


h4(#example_3set_active_class_using_the_container_tag). Example 3: Set active class using the container tag

This code will add

bc(code). class="active"


to the

bc(code). <nowiki><li></nowiki>


element around the “current” category in the list.

bc(code). <txp:category_list wraptag="ul" break="">
<li<txp:if_category name='<txp:category />'> class="active"</txp:if_category>>
<txp:category title="1" link="1" />
</li>
</txp:category_list>


h3(sectionedit2#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li>Can be used as a container tag.</li>
<li>bc(code). form


<p>and</p>
bc(code). children


<p>attributes added.</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_404). Version 4.0.4

<ul>
<li>bc(code). active_class


<p>,</p>
bc(code). categories


<p>,</p>
bc(code). exclude


<p>,</p>
bc(code). section


<p>,</p>
bc(code). this_section


<p>added.</p></li>
</ul>

