\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:category2 />


The "category2":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category2 tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag. It will display information of the category as defined by Cat2 of the article being displayed. When used as a containing tag, it will turn the contents into a link to that category. Otherwise, it will return plain text.

This tag may be used within either an article form, or in a page, wrapped in an "if&#95;individual&#95;article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_individual_article conditional tag.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 "HTML class attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/global.html#adef-class to be applied to

bc(code). wraptag


. Default: unset. *"link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#link=“boolean” (works only in the _single_ tag)*
 Whether to link to articles from the same category. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section name”*
 Only link to articles from the specified section. Default: unset. *"this&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#this_section=“boolean”*
 Whether to only link to articles from the section containing the current article. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no, allow from any section). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“boolean”*
 Whether to output category title, rather than name. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no, output name). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag”*
 "HTML tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/intro/sgmltut.html#h-3.2.1 (without brackets) to wrap around output. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1category_name_in_plain_text). Example 1: Category name in plain text

bc(code). <txp:category2 />


h4(#example_2hyperlinked_category_title). Example 2: Hyperlinked category title

bc(code). <txp:category2 link="1" title="1" />


If category2 is “General”, this tag will display the word “General” as a hyperlink to a list of articles in the same category.

h4(#example_3container_example). Example 3: Container example

bc(code). <txp:category2>Other articles in category <txp:category2 title="1" /></txp:category2>


h4(#example_4category_1_and_2). Example 4: Category 1 and 2

Shows a hyperlinked category 1 and also hyperlinked category 2, but only if it is used.

bc(code). Filed in: <txp:category1 link="1" title="1" />
<txp:if_article_category number="2">
   and <txp:category2 link="1" title="1" />
</txp:if_article_category>


Other tags used: "category1":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category1, "if&#95;article&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_category

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_404). Version 4.0.4

<ul>
<li>bc(code). class


<p>,</p>
bc(code). section


<p>,</p>
bc(code). this_section


<p>,</p>
bc(code). wraptag


<p>added.</p></li>
</ul>

