\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:comments_help />


The "comments&#95;help":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_help tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a Textile help link. This tag can be used in a page or a form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1comment_form). Example 1: Comment Form

bc(code).   <table cellpadding="4" cellspacing="0" border="0">
    <tr>
      <td align="right" valign="top">
        <txp:text item="name" />
      </td>
   <td valign="top">
        <txp:comment_name_input />
      </td>
      <td valign="top" align="left">
        <txp:comment_remember />
      </td> 
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="right" valign="top">
        <txp:text item="email" />
      </td>
      <td valign="top" colspan="2">
        <txp:comment_email_input />
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr> 
      <td align="right" valign="top">
        http://
      </td>
      <td valign="top" colspan="2">
        <txp:comment_web_input />
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="top" align="right">
        <txp:text item="message" />
      </td>
      <td valign="top" colspan="2">
        <txp:comment_message_input />
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="right" valign="top"> </td>
      <td valign="top" align="left">
        <txp:comments_help />
      </td>
      <td align="right" valign="top">
        <txp:comment_preview />
        <txp:comment_submit />
      </td>
    </tr>
  </table>


Other tags used: "comment&#95;email&#95;input":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_email_input, "comment&#95;name&#95;input":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_name_input, "comment&#95;web&#95;input":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_web_input, "comment&#95;preview":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_preview, "comment&#95;remember":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_remember, "comment&#95;submit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_submit, "text":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=text

