\nThis branch of the wiki is for individuals and groups of people who initiate innovating activities for the the Textpattern project. The activities can be just about anything, and you'll see some example below of brainstorming efforts that have happened before, whether successfully or not.

h3(sectionedit1#do_i_have_to_use_the_wiki). Do I have to use the wiki?

It used to be the wiki was ideal for this kind of thing, because you can easily collaborate on copy (write, edit... rollback, if necessary), upload images and files, and so forth. These days, with "Dropbox":http://dropbox.com, "Google Drive":http://drive.google.com, and the like—most of which can even sync to your local drive if your offline—the wiki has become a lot less necessary as a collaborative tool, outside of the fact it's within the Textpattern family environment where people expect to be able to find information.

Point is, it's okay to manage a project in different cloud based tools, but just make sure you provide a project page here that links out to the landing of your project elsewhere, wherever it is. This ensures there's a reliable way to find it.

h3(sectionedit2#how_to_get_started). How to get started

From the top:

<ol>
<li>Get a wiki account, if you don't already have one. .</li>
<li>Come back to this page and add your project page link to the *Active projects* section below.</li>
<li><p>Follow the link to edit the page and immediately add this snip of code at very top of page:</p>
bc(code). <nowiki>{{Projects}}</nowiki>


<p>, which adds the project flag.</p></li>
<li><p>And add this category tag at very bottom of page:</p>
bc(code). <nowiki>[[category:Projects]]</nowiki>


<p>, which puts the page into the Projects category so it's easily found against other real user documentation pages. (Important for wiki maintenance.)</p></li>
<li>Provide the following information on your project page so people know what the heck it's about:
<ul>
<li>Name of person coordinating the effort, if relevant.</li>
<li>Names of recognised contributors, if any.</li>
<li>A problem statement (_i.e._, why are you even starting this project?)</li>
<li>The objectives you expect to achieve.</li>
<li>Any supporting information and/or reference.</li>
<li>The expected phases and/or workflow, if understood at this point.</li>
<li>Any images that are relevant to detailing either the problem or the desired outcome. (Upload the images to the wiki, then link them into the page.)</li>
<li>Whatever else might appropriate to your projects situation that isn't mentioned here.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Announce your project page in "Organizing Community Contributions":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=30.</li>
<li>Advertise your project in all the Textpattern social channels too so it gets eyes and interest.</li>
<li>Follow through on your project and deliver large! :)</li>
</ol>

h3(sectionedit3#active_projects). Active projects

Add title of your new project page below. (Inactive or abandoned projects should be moved to the *Old projects* section.)

* "infographic&#95;data&#95;pooling":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=infographic_data_pooling

h3(sectionedit4#inactive_projects). Inactive projects

Abandoned projects that may or may not be worth anything anymore. If one is salvageable, feel free to revive it, _loudly_. If you know it's too far gone, move it to the *Dead* list.

* "multilingual&#95;publishing":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=multilingual_publishing
* "admin-side&#95;redevelopment":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=admin-side_redevelopment
* "zem&#95;event&#95;tag&#95;reference":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=zem_event_tag_reference
* "naming&#95;conventions&#95;for&#95;template&#95;authors":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=naming_conventions_for_template_authors
* ???

h3(sectionedit5#dead_projects_that_wiki_admins_need_to_remove). Dead projects that wiki admins need to remove

* "textpattern&#95;community&#95;map&#95;project":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern_community_map_project

