\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:comment_web>


The "comment&#95;web":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_web tag can be used as either a _single_ or a _container_ tag. It is used to display (a link to) the commenter's web address, if entered at the time of posting.

When used as a container tag, it will turn the contents into a link to that web address. Otherwise, it will return the web address.

Used in a comment form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1comments_display_form_with_linked_website_and_comment_id). Example 1: Comments Display Form with linked website and comment id

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:comment_message /&gt;

&lt;p&gt;&lt;small&gt;&amp;#8212; &lt;a href=&quot;&lt;txp:comment_web /&gt;&quot;&gt;&lt;txp:comment_web /&gt;&lt;/a&gt; &lt;txp:comment_time /&gt; 
    &lt;txp:comment_permlink&gt;#&lt;/txp:comment_permlink&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "comment&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_name, "comment&#95;message":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_message, "comment&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_permlink, "comment&#95;time":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_time

h4(#example_2container_example). Example 2: Container Example

bc(code). <txp:comment_web>Website</txp:comment_web>


