\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:comments />


The "comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display the comments associated with a particular article. Comments will be displayed for the present individual article as a default, or to the article set by the “id” attribute.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"break":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#break=“text”*
 HTML tag (without brackets) or string used to separate comments. Default depends upon "preference setting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences#present_comments_as_a_numbered_list_3, either

bc(code). li


or

bc(code). div


. *"breakclass":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#breakclass=“class name”*
 CSS class attribute to be applied to

bc(code). break


(when value supplied is a tag). Default: unset. *"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS class attribute to be applied to

bc(code). wraptag


. Default:

bc(code). comments


. *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Default is

bc(code). comments


. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 The number of comments to display. Default:

bc(code). 0


(no limit). *"offset":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#offset=“integer”*
 The number of comments to skip. Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). discussid


(comment ID)

bc(code). parentid


(article ID)

bc(code). name


bc(code). email


bc(code). web


bc(code). ip


("IP address":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address)

bc(code). posted


bc(code). message


bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand) Default:

bc(code). posted asc


. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around list. Default depends upon "preference setting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences#present_comments_as_a_numbered_list_3, either

bc(code). ol


or unset.

h4(#example_1display_comments_and_give_an_indication_of_comments_status). Example 1: Display comments, and give an indication of //Comments// status

Comments for articles can be turned off or on at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while still giving users indication of comment status.

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:comments /&gt;

&lt;txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
    &lt;txp:comments_form /&gt;
&lt;txp:else /&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;Comments are turned off for this article.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "comments&#95;form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_form, "if&#95;comments&#95;allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_comments_allowed, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

h4(#example_2conditional_comments). Example 2: Conditional comments

*Tags*

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
    &lt;txp:comments form=&quot;lineitem&quot; breakclass=&quot;special&quot; break=&quot;li&quot; wraptag=&quot;ul&quot; /&gt;

    &lt;txp:comments_form /&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
</pre>

*Form (lineitem) (type: comment)*

bc(code). <small><txp:comment_id /></small>


*Styles could go this way*

bc(code). .special
{
        display:list-item;
        list-style-type:none;
}


*What it does...*
 For the article, list id numbers and a comment input form; but only if comments are currently allowed.

Other tags used: "comment&#95;id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_id, "comments&#95;form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_form, "if&#95;comments&#95;allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_comments_allowed

