\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:comment_time />


The "comment&#95;time":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_time tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display the time and date the comment was submitted. Used in a comment form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#format=“value”*
 Override default date format, as set in preferences. Values: any valid "strftime()":http://php.net/strftime string or

bc(code). since


. *"gmt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#gmt=“boolean”*
 Return either local time  -  according to the set time zone preferences  -  or GMT. Values:

bc(code). 0


(local time) or

bc(code). 1


(GMT). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"lang":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#lang=“ISO language code”*
 Format time string suitable for the specified language (locale). Values: locales adhere to "ISO-639":http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639-2/php/code_list.php. Default: unset (time format set via preferences).

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1comments_display_form). Example 1: Comments Display Form

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:comment_message /&gt;

&lt;p&gt;&lt;small&gt;&amp;#8212; &lt;txp:comment_name /&gt; &lt;txp:comment_time /&gt; 
    &lt;txp:comment_permlink&gt;#&lt;/txp:comment_permlink&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "comment&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_name, "comment&#95;message":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_message, "comment&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_permlink

