\nBelow is a template that all plugin developers should adhere to as closely as possible. Using a template makes writing the plugin help easier, more consistent and more complete, as well as easier for your users to understand and navigate.

*Do not use inline CSS styling* of your own - please make use of the existing CSS stylesheet that was provided by the admin theme instead.

The following guidelines are taken from "this forum post":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=25327

h3(sectionedit1#textile_tags). Textile tags

Use the following Textile tags when formatting help files:

<pre class="code">
h1. Plugin title

h2. Section name

h3. Subsection name

p. Body text uses regular paragraph formatting

p. An %(highlight)important statement% within a paragraph

# A number list example
# Item 2
# Item 3

* A bullet list example
* Item 2
* Item 3

An inline @code@ tag

bc. A pre code box with pre formatted
  code examples
</pre>

h3(sectionedit2#suggested_sections). Suggested sections

Here are the suggested sections for your help file - use as many as is necessary for your help file:

# Summary and version details
# Table of contents
# List of features
# Plugin requirements
# Installation (when differs from standard installation procedure)
# Uninstallation (when differs from standard uninstallation procedure)
# Tags (along with attribute descriptions and examples)
# Exposed functions (for class plugins)
# Global variables
# Plugin events
# Examples
# License
# Author contact

h3(sectionedit3#template). Template

Here is an example template you can base your help document upon:

<pre class="code">
h1. prefix_plugin_name

p. A brief summary of what the plugin does.

p. *Version:* current version number goes here.

h2. Table of contents

# &quot;List of features&quot;:#help-section01
# &quot;Plugin requirements&quot;:#help-section02
# &quot;Installation&quot;:#help-section03
# &quot;Uninstallation&quot;:#help-section04
# &quot;Tags&quot;:#help-section05
# &quot;Exposed functions&quot;:#help-section06
# &quot;Global variables&quot;:#help-section07
# &quot;Plugin events&quot;:#help-section08
# &quot;Examples&quot;:#help-section09
# &quot;License&quot;:#help-section10
# &quot;Author contact&quot;:#help-section11

h2(#help-section01). List of features

* Feature 1
* Feature 2
* Feature 3

h2(#help-section02). Plugin requirements

p. my_plugin_name’s minimum requirements:

* Textpattern 4.x
* Plugin dependency 1
* Plugin dependency 2

h2(#help-section03). Installation

p. Any special installation instructions (when differs from standard installation procedure).

h2(#help-section04). Uninstallation

p. Any special uninstallation instructions (when differs from standard uninstallation procedure).

h2(#help-section05). Tags

h3. prefix_tag_name1

p. Description of the plugin tag and how it is intended to be used.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

h3. prefix_tag_name2

p. Description of the plugin tag and how it is intended to be used.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

p. %attribute_name% %value_type%
Description of the attribute usage.

h2(#help-section06). Exposed functions

h3(tag). my_plugin_func

p. This function will do foo or bar.

p. %(atts-name)Return Value% %(atts-type)return_value_type%
Description of the function return value.

p. %arg_name% %arg_value_type%
Argument description.

h2(#help-section07). Global variables

h3. $my_plugin_global

p. This array is set during _blah_ and is false on failure.

h2(#help-section08). Plugin events

h3. my_plugin.event

p. This event is called when blah happens.

h2(#help-section09). Examples

h3. Example 1

p. A large example that puts it all together or examples to go with each tag (in which case it is probably better to include it with the tag above).

bc. Example code

h3. Example 2

p. A large example that puts it all together or examples to go with each tag (in which case it is probably better to include it with the tag above).

bc. Example code

h2(#help-section10). Licence

p. State any special licence information here.

h2(#help-section11). Author contact

p. Optional direct contact details for the plugin author.
</pre>

