\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:css />


The basic "css":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=css tag is a _single_ tag and used to output the URL of the style sheet assigned in the "Sections tab":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=sections.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#format=“value”*
 How to format output: either return complete "HTML link tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/links.html#edef-LINK with necessary HTML attributes, or only the StyleSheet's URL. Available values are

bc(code). link


or

bc(code). url


. Default is

bc(code). url


. *"media":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#media=“value”*
 "HTML media attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/present/styles.html#adef-media to be applied to link tag (when invoked with

bc(code). format="link"


). Default is

bc(code). screen


. *"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“style name”*
 Link to specified style. *"rel":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#rel=“value”*
 "HTML rel attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/links.html#adef-rel to be applied to link tag (when invoked with

bc(code). format="link"


). Default is

bc(code). stylesheet


. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“value”*
 "HTML title attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/global.html#adef-title to be applied to link tag (when invoked with

bc(code). format="link"


). Default is unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1output_the_link_to_the_section_s_default_style_sheet). Example 1: Output the link to the section's default style sheet

bc(code). <head>
<!-- ...tags... -->
<txp:css format="link" />
<!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>


h4(#example_2output_the_link_to_a_named_style_sheet). Example 2: Output the link to a named style sheet

bc(code). <head>
<!-- ...tags... -->
<txp:css format="link" name="style_name" />
<!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>


h4(#example_3output_print_and_alternate_style_sheets). Example 3: Output print and alternate style sheets

bc(code). <head>
<!-- ...tags... -->
<txp:css format="link" name="plain" rel="alternate" title="Plain and Simple Style" />
<txp:css format="link" name="glossy" rel="alternate" title="Glossy Style"/>
<txp:css format="link" name="print" media="print" />
<!-- ...more tags... -->
</head>


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). n


<p>attribute deprecated and renamed</p>
bc(code). name

</li>
</ul>

h4(#version_404). Version 4.0.4

<ul>
<li>bc(code). format


<p>,</p>
bc(code). media


<p>,</p>
bc(code). rel


<p>,</p>
bc(code). title


<p>added.</p></li>
</ul>

