\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:excerpt />


The "excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=excerpt tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the excerpt text, if any, associated with the article being displayed.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#related_tags). Related Tags

The conditional tag "if&#95;excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_excerpt can be used to check if there is an excerpt.

h3(sectionedit3#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1excerpt_and_read_more_button). Example 1: Excerpt and 'read more' button

This example explains how you could display the excerpt in an article list, and excerpt + body in an individual article. Use the following in an article form:

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:if_article_list&gt;

    &lt;txp:if_excerpt&gt;
        &lt;txp:excerpt /&gt;
        &lt;p class=&quot;read-more&gt;
           &lt;a href=&quot;&lt;txp:permlink /&gt;#body&quot;
              title=&quot;&lt;txp:title /&gt;&quot;&gt;&amp;#187; Read more&lt;/a&gt;
        &lt;/p&gt;
    &lt;txp:else /&gt;
        &lt;txp:body /&gt;
    &lt;/txp:if_excerpt&gt;

&lt;txp:else /&gt;

    &lt;txp:if_excerpt&gt;
        &lt;txp:excerpt /&gt;
    &lt;/txp:if_excerpt&gt;

    &lt;div id=&quot;body&quot;&gt;
        &lt;txp:body /&gt;
    &lt;/div&gt;

&lt;/txp:if_article_list&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "body":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=body, "if&#95;article&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_list, "if&#95;excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_excerpt, "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title

h4(#example_2display_the_excerpt_text_or_a_default_link). Example 2: Display the excerpt text or a default link

Use the following within an article form:

bc(code). <txp:if_excerpt>
    <txp:excerpt />
<txp:else />
    <p>Section: <txp:section title="1" link="1" /></p>
</txp:if_excerpt>


Other tags used: "if&#95;excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_excerpt, "section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section

