\nTextpattern is a lean publishing platform, and appropriate use of "forms":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms and Tags can do a lot. When certain requirements cannot be met by Forms and Tags along, Textpattern can be extended with "plugins":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins.

Plugins allow functional extension of Textpattern without jeopardising paths of future updates. While there are no guarantee that plugins will continue to work as intended after an update (plugin authors must ensure their plugins work at every new Textpattern release), there is a lot of effort put into maintaining backwards compatibility within the development branch of Textpattern itself.

Ready to create a plugin? Great! Get started with the links below.

h3(sectionedit1#reading_up). Reading Up

* "what&#95;is&#95;a&#95;plugin&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=what_is_a_plugin
* "plugin&#95;basics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_basics
* "plugin&#95;development&#95;guidelines":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_development_guidelines
* "creating&#95;plugin&#95;help&#95;guidelines":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=creating_plugin_help_guidelines
* "how&#95;plugins&#95;are&#95;loaded":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=how_plugins_are_loaded
* "using&#95;callbacks&#95;in&#95;between&#95;plugins&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=using_callbacks_in_between_plugins
* "Textpattern Plugin Anatomy":http://thresholdstate.com/articles/?c=txp-anatomy
* "textpacks":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpacks

h3(sectionedit2#tools_and_aides). Tools and Aides

* "plugin&#95;template":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_template
* "Phpxref: Comprehensive Cross-reference of Textpattern Functions and Variables":http://phpxref.com/xref/textpattern/
* Core Function Reference (in progress)
* Plugins for creating plugins:
** "ied&#95;plugin&#95;composer":http://textpattern.org/plugins/588/ied_plugin_composer
** "sed&#95;plugin&#95;help&#95;viewer":http://textpattern.org/plugins/612/sed_plugin_help_viewer
* "Commandline plugin decoder":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=4252
* "Generate a list of tags and attributes":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=12299
* "Classes in plugins":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26025
* Wilshire One's:
** "Textpattern Plugin How To":http://www.wilshireone.com/article/38/textpattern-plugin-how-to
** "Textpattern source code bookmarklet":http://www.wilshireone.com/article/130/searching-textpattern-source-code
* Global Variables:
** "Accessing Global Variables":http://www.focusontheclouds.com/home/articles/72/accessing-global-variables-in-textpattern
* "Plugin Development Mailing List":http://lists.textpattern.com/
* "code&#95;hosting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=code_hosting
* "How do I fetch the current development version?":http://textpattern.com/faq/103/how-do-i-fetch-the-current-development-version

h3(sectionedit3#implementation). Implementation

* "registered&#95;textpattern&#95;developer&#95;prefixes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=registered_textpattern_developer_prefixes (These are _not_ available to new plugin authors. You must add yours here. Use only one!)
* "admin&#95;events&#95;and&#95;steps":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=admin_events_and_steps
* "user&#95;roles&#95;and&#95;permissions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=user_roles_and_permissions
* "database&#95;schema&#95;reference":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=database_schema_reference
* "extensions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=extensions (the Extensions tab in admin-side for administration-related plugins)

h3(sectionedit4#beneficial_practice). Beneficial Practice

* "Writing or porting an anti-spam plugin for Textpattern":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=combat_comment_spam#writing_porting_an_anti-spam_plugin

