\n"mininav&#95;projects":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_projects

Many suggestions for new Textpattern features are posted on the "Textpattern forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewforum.php?id=2. The following pages are placeholders for posting more detailed information about potential new features: specifications, documentation, examples, descriptions of tags, screen designs, use cases, and so on. The more detailed and complete the information posted here, the more likely it is that others will contribute.

Before drafting a request, decide if it should be a native core feature of Textpattern, or if it can be a plugin. See "plugin&#95;vs&#95;core":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugin_vs_core.

h3(sectionedit1#request_for_the_core_textpattern). Request for the Core Textpattern

* "improved&#95;copy&#95;in&#95;site&#95;administration&#95;panels":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=improved_copy_in_site_administration_panels
* "improved&#95;permissions&#95;and&#95;roles":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=improved_permissions_and_roles
* "improved&#95;navigation&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=improved_navigation_tags
* "article&#95;version&#95;control":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article_version_control
* "improved&#95;image&#95;handling":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=improved_image_handling
* "themes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=themes
* "author&#95;profile":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author_profile
* "textile&#95;syntax&#95;for&#95;local&#95;content":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textile_syntax_for_local_content
* "default&#95;page&#95;and&#95;front&#95;page&#95;separated":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=default_page_and_front_page_separated

h3(sectionedit2#request_for_textpattern_plugins). Request for Textpattern Plugins

* "multilingual&#95;publishing":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=multilingual_publishing
* "portal&#95;links&#95;plugin":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=portal_links_plugin
* "audioblogging&#95;podcasting":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=audioblogging_podcasting

h3(sectionedit3#things_that_need_help_from_volunteers). Things that need help from volunteers

* "import&#95;scripts":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=import_scripts

Please remember that these are _requests_. Textpattern is an Open Source project, built by "volunteers":http://textpattern.com/faq/90/when-will-the-next-version-be-released who donate their own time and code. Things get created gradually, one little piece at a time.

