\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:file_download_list />


The "file&#95;download&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_list tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of download links according to the given attributes. Each file in the list is formatted by the file tags used in the given form (default is the

bc(code). files


form).

If used as a container, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc(code). <txp:file_download_list>
...contained statements...
</txp:file_download_list>


h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#author=“author login name”*
 Restrict to files with the specified author. Default: unset. *"auto&#95;detect":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#auto_detect=“string context”*
 List of Textpattern contexts to consider when automatically searching for files. If you wish to turn off the automatic check, set this to *auto&#95;detect=““*. You can choose from the following contexts: *category* to look in the URL for a category list *author* to look in the URL for an author list Default: *category, author* *"category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#category=“category name”*
 Restrict to files from the specified category. Allows a comma separated list of category names. Note: category names may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitized for URL use. Check the "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories tab to ensure you are using the correct names Default: unset. *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use the specified form to process the files. Default:

bc(code). files


. *"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“file ID”*
 Display the specific file or list of files. Value: (comma separated list of) file ID(s). Default: unset. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 Number of files to display. Default is

bc(code). 10


. *"offset":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#offset=“integer”*
 Number of files to skip. Default: unset. *"pageby":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#pageby=“integer or &lt;code&gt;limit&lt;/code&gt;”*
 Number of files to jump each page. Without this attribute, you cannot navigate using the "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer and [older]] tags. Usually you will want to track the

bc(code). limit


attribute. Use

bc(code). pageby="limit"


to do this, which means you will not have to amend two values if you subsequently decide to alter the

bc(code). limit


Default: unset *"realname":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#realname=“author real name”*
 Restrict to files with the specified author name. Default: unset. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“by what and order”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). id


bc(code). filename


bc(code). title


bc(code). category


bc(code). description


bc(code). downloads


bc(code). created


bc(code). modified


bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand). Adding a space and then one of either

bc(code). asc


or

bc(code). desc


orders by ascending or descending value, respectively. Default:

bc(code). filename asc


. *"status":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#status=“file status”*
 Restrict to files with the specified status. Values:

bc(code). hidden


,

bc(code). pending


,

bc(code). live


. Default:

bc(code). live


.

"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_the_ten_most_popular_downloads). Example 1: Display the ten most popular downloads

bc(code). <txp:file_download_list limit="10" break="li" wraptag="ul" sort="downloads desc" />


*Styles could go this way*

bc(code). .file_download_list
{
    list-style-type:none;
}


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). pageby


<p>attribute added to enable paging via "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer and "older":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=older</p></li>
<li>bc(code). author


<p>and</p>
bc(code). realname


<p>attributes added</p></li>
<li>bc(code). auto_detect


<p>added to allow automatic (URL-based) contextual listings</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_420). Version 4.2.0

<ul>
<li><p>New attribute</p>
bc(code). id


<p>.</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

* Can be used as a container tag.

h4(#version_406). Version 4.0.6

* support added for comma separated list for category attribute

