\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:file_download_description />


The "file&#95;download&#95;description":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_description tag is a _single_ tag which Textpattern will replace with the description of the file to download, as defined when the file was uploaded. Should be used in a "download form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"escape":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#escape=“html”*
 Escape HTML entities such as

bc(code). <


,

bc(code). >


and

bc(code). &


for the file's

bc(code). description


attribute. Values:

bc(code). html


or unset Default:

bc(code). html


. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to wrap description text with. Specify it without brackets. Default: unset. *"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS class attribute to apply to the wraptag surrounding the description text.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_file_s_description_following_description). Example 1: Display a file s description following &quot;description:&quot;

bc(code). <txp:text item="description" />: <txp:file_download_description />


Other tags used: "text":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=text

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li><p>default value for attribute</p>
bc(code). escape


<p>changed from unset to</p>
bc(code). html

</li>
</ul>

