\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:file_download_name />


The "file&#95;download&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_name&gt; tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the name of the file to download. Should be used in a "download form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained or within a "file&#95;download&#95;link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_link tag.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“boolean”*
 Whether to display the file download name or its title Values:

bc(code). 0


(name), or

bc(code). 1


(title). Default:

bc(code). 0


.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_the_name_of_a_file_linked_to_download). Example 1: Display the name of a file, linked to download

bc(code). <txp:file_download_link filename="my_presentation.pdf">
<txp:file_download_name /> [<txp:file_download_size format="mb" decimals="2" />]
</txp:file_download_link>


Other tags used: "file&#95;download&#95;link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_link, "file&#95;download&#95;size":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_size

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). title


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

