\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:file_download />


The "file&#95;download":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download tag is a _single_ tag which Textpattern will replace with a file download "form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained. Inside that form go the other .

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"filename":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#filename=“name”*
 Filename of the file to link to. Default is unset; nothing is returned. *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“name”*
 Use the specified form. Default is

bc(code). files


. *"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 File id of the file to link to. Default is unset; nothing is returned.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_download_form). Example 1: Display a download form

bc(code). <txp:file_download form="files" id="1" />


h5(#default_files_form). Default &quot;files&quot; form

bc(code). <txp:text item="file" />: 
<txp:file_download_link>
<txp:file_download_name /> [<txp:file_download_size format="b" decimals="2" />]
</txp:file_download_link>
<br />
<txp:text item="category" />: <txp:file_download_category /><br />
<txp:text item="download" />: <txp:file_download_downloads />


Other tags used: "file&#95;download&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_category, "file&#95;download&#95;downloads":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_downloads, "file&#95;download&#95;link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_link, "file&#95;download&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_name, "file&#95;download&#95;size":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=file_download_size, "text":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=text

