\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:hide>


The "hide":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=hide tag is a _container_ tag which is used to suppress the interpretation of all enclosed contents. Use it for comments, temporary concealment of article text parts or non-destructive form changes.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1insert_a_useful_note_in_a_template). Example 1: Insert a useful note in a template

bc(code). <txp:hide>This is essential as a work-around for the Peekaboo
  bug in Internet Explorer 6</txp:hide>


h4(#example_2comment_out_part_of_a_form_for_testing). Example 2: Comment out part of a form for testing

If you want to try something out to see how it affects the layout without actually deleting the content, wrap it in "hide":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=hide tags:

<pre class="code">
&lt;div class=&quot;entry-content&quot;&gt;
 &lt;txp:body /&gt;
&lt;/div&gt;

&lt;txp:hide&gt;

&lt;address class=&quot;vcard author&quot;&gt;
  — &lt;span class=&quot;fn&quot;&gt;&lt;txp:author /&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
&lt;/address&gt;
&lt;txp:comments_invite wraptag=&quot;p&quot; /&gt;

&lt;/txp:hide&gt;
</pre>

*What this does...*
 Renders the body text inside the

bc(code). entry-content


div but skips the

bc(code). address


and

bc(code). comments_invite


tags.

Other tags used: "body":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=body, "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author, "comments&#95;invite":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_invite

