\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_article_section>


The "if&#95;article&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_section tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_article_section>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_article_section>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the section name associated with a particular article matches the value of the

bc(code). name


attribute. Should be used in an article form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“section”*
 Comma-separated list of section names.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1check_the_article_s_section). Example 1: Check the article's section

bc(code). <txp:if_article_section name="poetry">
<p>by <txp:author /></p>
</txp:if_article_section>


*What this does...*
 Displays the author name if the current article belongs to the section named

bc(code). Poetry


.

Other tags used: "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author

h4(#example_2using_the_tag_with_else). Example 2: Using the tag with [[else]]

bc(code). <txp:if_article_section name="poetry">
<p>Fun With Poetry</p>
<txp:else />
<p><a href="index.php">Home</a></p>
</txp:if_article_section>


*What this does...*
 Display the welcome text if the article's section matches

bc(code). Poetry


, or shows a default link otherwise.

Other tags used: "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

