\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_author>


The "if&#95;author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_author tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_author>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_author>


The tag will execute the contained statement if the called page is the result of an article search by a specific author's name.

This is _not_ the same as checking if the current article was written (posted) by the given author. Use "if&#95;article&#95;author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_author for that situation

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“author”*
 Comma-separated list of author names. Default is unset, which determines whether _any_ author listing is being viewed. *"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“context”*
 Textpattern context to check against. You can choose from the following contexts: *article* is this an article author list? *image* is this an image author list? *file* is this a file author list? *link* is this a link author list? Default:

bc(code). article


Set to empty to include all contexts

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1select_a_stylesheet_based_on_author). Example 1: Select a stylesheet based on author

Selects a stylesheet named “author&#95;list” when a list by author “admin” is being displayed, or a stylesheet determined by the active section for normal page display.

bc(code). <txp:if_author name="admin">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="<txp:css name="author_list" />" type="text/css" />
<txp:else />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="<txp:css />" type="text/css" />
</txp:if_author>


Other tags used: "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else, "css":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=css

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). type


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

