\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_article_id>


The "if&#95;article&#95;id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_id tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_article_id>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_article_id>


The tag will execute the contained statement if the article id associated with a particular article matches the id attribute. Should be used in an article form/container. The

bc(code). id


attribute _must_ be used in an _article list context_ (when producing a page that displays more than one article) or the tag will do nothing.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 Comma delimited integer article ID list. Default: current article's ID if available (i.e. on a page that displays a single article).

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_info_if_the_article_id_matches). Example 1: Display info if the article id matches

bc(code). <txp:if_article_id id="33">
    <p><txp:title /></p>
</txp:if_article_id>


*What this does...*
 Displays the article title if the id of the current article is 33.

Other tags used: "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title

h4(#example_2display_a_list_of_articles_omitting_current_article). Example 2: Display a list of articles omitting current article

bc(code). <txp:article_custom label="related" labeltag="h4" section='<txp:section />' wraptag="ul">
<txp:if_article_id>
<txp:else />
<li><txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink></li>
</txp:if_article_id>
</txp:article_custom>


*What this does...*
 Displays an unordered linked list of articles from the same section omitting the article currently viewed.

Other tags used: "article&#95;custom":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article_custom, "section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else, "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

<ul>
<li><p>As of September 2009 (version 4.2.0), there is a "motion":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=214437#p214437 to simplify the semantics of this tag in the case of undefined</p>
bc(code). id


<p>attribute.</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

* Defaults to the current article's ID.

