\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_comments_disallowed>


The "if&#95;comments&#95;disallowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_comments_disallowed tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_comments_disallowed>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>


The tag will execute the contained statements if comments are disallowed for a given article.

The _if&#95;comments&#95;disallowed_ tag can be used in pages, and in article and comment forms. When used in a page template, it will test the article identified by the attribute for status and act, or not, according to that status. It will not pass the

bc(code). id


attribute to the contained statement, such as "comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments or "comments&#95;form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_form; they must be added as attributes to the contained tag.

Although you can use an

bc(code). id


attribute in a comment form, the default behavior (no attribute) will ensure consistency in comment/article matching when viewing an individual article.

This tag is mainly used in combination with "if&#95;comments&#95;allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_comments_allowed.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1giving_an_indication_of_comment_status). Example 1: Giving an indication of comment status

Comments for articles can be turned off or on at the authors discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while still giving users indication of comment status.

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
   &lt;txp:comments_form /&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;

&lt;txp:if_comments_disallowed&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;Comments are turned off for this article.&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_comments_disallowed&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "if&#95;comments&#95;allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_comments_allowed, "comments&#95;form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_form

h4(#example_2list_of_comment_links). Example 2: List of comment links

bc(code). <txp:if_comments_disallowed>
  <txp:comments form="lineitem" break="li" wraptag="ul" breakclass="special" />
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>


*Form (lineitem) (type: comment)*

bc(code). <small><txp:comment_permlink><txp:comment_id /></txp:comment_permlink></small>


*Styles could go this way*

bc(code). .special
{
        display:list-item;
        list-style-type:none;
}


*What this does...*
 Displaying a list of links to comments for the current article, using the comment id as text, but only if comments are currently *not allowed*.

Other tags used: "comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments, "comment&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_permlink, "comment&#95;id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comment_id

