\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_category>


The "if&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_category tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_category>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_category>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the

bc(code). name


attribute matches a category search value, or the list is an article list by category (

bc(code). ?c=**category**


)

Should be used in a page template; if checking the category in an article form, use "if&#95;article&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_article_category.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“category”*
 Comma-separated list of category names. Note the category name is specified in lower case regardless of how you typed its title in the Category tab. Also note that if you had called your category *My Category Name* it becomes *my-category-name* when used in tags Default is unset, which determines whether _any_ category listing is being viewed. *"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“context”*
 Textpattern context to check against. You can choose from the following contexts: *article* is this an article category list? *image* is this an image category list? *file* is this a file category list? *link* is this a link category list? Default:

bc(code). article


Set to empty to include all contexts

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_info_depending_on_list_category). Example 1: Display info depending on list category

bc(code). <txp:if_category name="prose">
<p><txp:author /></p>
</txp:if_category>


*What this does...*
 Displays the author's name if the article list is of category “Prose”. Other tags used: "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author

h4(#example_2use_tag_with_else). Example 2: Use tag with [[else]]

bc(code). <txp:if_category name="prose">
   <p><txp:category /></p>
<txp:else />
   <h3><txp:site_name /></h3>
</txp:if_category>


*What this does...*
 Displays the category name if the article list is of category “Prose”, otherwise show the site's name.

Other tags used: "category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else, "site&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=site_name

h4(#example_3display_an_appropriate_heading). Example 3: Display an appropriate heading

bc(code). <txp:if_category>
   <h3>Articles in category <txp:category title=1 />:</h3>
<txp:else />
   <h3>All articles:</h3>
</txp:if_category>


*What this does...*
 Displays an appropriate heading for both category and non-category pages.

Other tags used: "category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

h4(#example_4display_a_category_article_list). Example 4: Display a category / article list

*Given the defined article categories: Prose, Poetry, and Opinions.*

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:category_list label=&quot;Category Navigation&quot; wraptag=&quot;p&quot; class=&quot;list&quot; /&gt;

&lt;txp:if_category name=&quot;prose&quot;&gt;
&lt;txp:recent_articles label=&quot;Prose&quot; limit=&quot;25&quot; break=&quot;br&quot; wraptag=&quot;p&quot; class=&quot;list&quot; category=&quot;prose&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_category&gt;

&lt;txp:if_category name=&quot;poetry&quot;&gt;
&lt;txp:recent_articles label=&quot;Poetry&quot; limit=&quot;25&quot; break=&quot;br&quot; wraptag=&quot;p&quot; class=&quot;list&quot; category=&quot;poetry&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_category&gt;

&lt;txp:if_category name=&quot;opinions&quot;&gt;
&lt;txp:recent_articles label=&quot;Opinions&quot; limit=&quot;25&quot; break=&quot;br&quot; wraptag=&quot;p&quot; class=&quot;list&quot; category=&quot;opinions&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_category&gt;
</pre>

*What this does...*
 Shows a category list and, underneath it, a list of related articles in the currently selected category. Changing the category using the list changes the related articles underneath.

*Styles could go this way:*

<pre class="code">
p.list
{
    font-family: Verdana, &quot;Lucida Grande&quot;, Tahoma, Helvetica;
    font-size: 11px;
        color:#333;
    margin-left: 10px;
    border-left: 3px solid #ccc;
}

p.list a
{       
        color:#333;
        margin-left:15px;

}

p.list a:hover
}
        border-bottom: 1px dashed #333;
}
</pre>

Other tags used: "category&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category_list, "recent&#95;articles":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=recent_articles

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). type


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

