\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_first_article>


The "if&#95;first&#95;article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_first_article tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_first_article>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_first_article>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the displayed article is the first in the currently displayed list. It will display in both single article and article list modes. Should be used in an article form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1add_a_linked_section_by_title). Example 1: Add a linked section by title

bc(code). <h3><txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink> · <txp:posted /> by <txp:author />
<txp:if_first_article>
· Section: <txp:section link="1" title="1" />
</txp:if_first_article></h3>
<txp:body />
<txp:comments_invite wraptag="p" />


*What this does...*
 Displays a link to the header of the first article in an article list.

Other tags used: "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title, "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author, "posted":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=posted, "section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section, "body":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=body, "comments&#95;invite":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments_invite

h4(#example_2add_a_class_to_a_list_item). Example 2: Add a class to a list item

bc(code). <li <txp:if_first_article>class="first"</txp:if_first_article>><a title="<txp:title />" href="<txp:permlink />"><txp:title /></a></li>


*What this does...*
 Adds a css class to the first article in an article list.

Other tags used: "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title

