\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_keywords>


The "if&#95;keywords":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_keywords tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_keywords>
...conditional statements...
</txp:if_keywords>


The tag will execute the contained statement if the current article's _keywords_ field has one or more entries.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"keywords":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#keywords=“keywords”*
 Comma-separated list of keywords. Default is unset, which determines whether _any_ keywords are assigned to the article.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1supply_meta_tag_if_keywords_exist). Example 1: Supply meta tag if keywords exist

<pre class="code">
&lt;head&gt;
[...]

&lt;txp:if_individual_article&gt;

   &lt;!-- we are on a single article page --&gt;
   &lt;txp:if_keywords&gt;
      &lt;!-- this single article has its own keywords --&gt;
      &lt;meta name=&quot;keywords&quot; content=&quot;&lt;txp:keywords /&gt;&quot; /&gt;
   &lt;txp:else /&gt;
      &lt;!-- this single article has no keywords: use some default keywords for meta data --&gt;
      &lt;meta name=&quot;keywords&quot; content=&quot;apple, orange, pear, foo, bar&quot; /&gt;
   &lt;/txp:if_keywords&gt;

&lt;txp:else /&gt;

   &lt;!-- we are on an article list page, use some default keywords for meta data --&gt;
   &lt;meta name=&quot;keywords&quot; content=&quot;apple, orange, pear, foo, bar&quot; /&gt;

&lt;/txp:if_individual_article&gt;

[...]
&lt;/head&gt;
</pre>

Other tags used: "keywords":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=keywords, "if&#95;individual&#95;article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_individual_article, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

* tag added

