\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_plugin>


The "if&#95;plugin":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_plugin tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_plugin>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_plugin>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the name attribute matches a currently installed and enabled plugin, and the current version number is equal to or greater than the ver attribute assigned (if used).

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“text”*
 Plugin name as defined on "plugins":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins tab. *"version":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#version=“number”*
 Minimum plugin version number.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1check_plugin_exists_before_using_a_tag). Example 1: Check plugin exists before using a tag

bc(code). <txp:if_plugin name="zem_plugin_lang" version="4">
<txp:zem_contact to="dest@example.com" />
</txp:if_plugin>


*What this does...*
 Apply the tag zem&#95;contact if the zem&#95;contact&#95;lang plugin is installed, activated, and the version number is equal to or greater than 4.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). ver


<p>attribute deprecated and renamed</p>
bc(code). version

</li>
</ul>

