\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_section>


The "if&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_section tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_section>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_section>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the called page is part of the section specified with the name attribute.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“section”*
 Comma-separated list of section names. For the default section, either use the text _default_ or a single comma (for example, both

bc(code). name=", other_section"


and

bc(code). name="default, other_section"


are equivalent).

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1conditionally_display_text_for_a_section). Example 1: Conditionally display text for a section

bc(code). <txp:if_section name="about">
  <p>danger, ego pages ahead!</p>
<txp:else />
  <p>nothing. just nothing. any ideas? anybody?</p>
</txp:if_section>


Other tags used: "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

h4(#example_2add_a_special_class_to_mark_the_currently_active_section). Example 2: Add a special class to mark the currently active section

bc(code). <h4>Menu</h4>
<ul class="nav">
  <li<txp:if_section name=",article"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
    <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="" />
  </li>
  <li<txp:if_section name="portfolio"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
    <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="portfolio" />
  </li>
  <li<txp:if_section name="about"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
    <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="about" />
  </li>
</ul>


A different way of marking the active section can be accomplished by using "section&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section_list and its attribute

bc(code). active_class


. While the above snippet will mark the list item, "section&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section_list will mark solely the link.

Other tags used: "section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section

