\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:if_thumbnail />


The "if&#95;thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_thumbnail tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_thumbnail>
...conditional statement...
</txp:if_thumbnail>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the current image (from an "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images) has a thumbnail assigned to it. Must always be used in an image context.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1only_show_a_thumbnail_if_one_exists). Example 1: Only show a thumbnail if one exists

bc(code). <txp:images author="neo" wraptag="div" class="author_gallery">
   <txp:if_thumbnail>
      <div><txp:thumbnail /></div>
   <txp:else />
      <div>No thumbnail</div>
   </txp:if_thumbnail>
   <txp:image_info />
</txp:images>


*What this does...*
 For each image uploaded by *neo*, display its thumbnail if it has one, or the text “No thumbnail” if it doesn't. Add the caption beneath that using "image&#95;info":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_info.

Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else, "image&#95;info":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_info, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

