\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:image_url />


The "image&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_url tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the URL of the current image in an "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images list, or the specific image if given an *id* or *name*.

If used as a container tag, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc(code). <txp:image_url>
...link contents...
</txp:image_url>


h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 An

bc(code). id


assigned at upload of an image to display. The IDs can be found on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. Default: unset. *"link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#link=“link type”*
 Whether to hyperlink the URL or not. Values: 1: hyperlink the URL (if used as a single tag) or the container content. 0: don't hyperlink the URL / container. auto: only apply the hyperlink if the tag is used as a container. Default:

bc(code). auto


. *"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“image name”*
 An image to display, given by its image name as shown on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. If both

bc(code). name


and

bc(code). id


are specified, the id takes precedence. Default: unset. *"thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#thumbnail=“boolean”*
 If set to 1, will display the link to the image's thumbnail instead of the full size image. Default: 0.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1directly_link_gallery_thumbs_to_main_image). Example 1: Directly link gallery thumbs to main image

Used as a single tag:

bc(code). <txp:images category="mammals">
   <a href="<txp:image_url />"><txp:thumbnail /></a>
</txp:images>


or as a container:

bc(code). <txp:images category="mammals">
   <txp:image_url><txp:thumbnail /></txp:image_url>
</txp:images>


Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

