\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:image_info />


The "image&#95;info":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_info tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the relevant image data from the current image. Should usually be used in an "image form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained, although it may be used on its own providing you specify an *id* or *name*.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"break":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#break=“tag text”*
 The HTML tag (without brackets) or string to separate each *type* item. Default: unset. *"breakclass":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#breakclass=“class name”*
 CSS

bc(code). class


attribute applied to each *break* tag. Default: unset. *"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS

bc(code). class


attribute applied to the

bc(code). wraptag


. Default: unset. *"escape":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#escape=“html”*
 Escape HTML entities such as

bc(code). <


,

bc(code). >


and

bc(code). &


for the given *type*s. Values:

bc(code). html


or unset. Default:

bc(code). html


*"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 An

bc(code). id


assigned at upload of an image to display. The IDs can be found on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. Default: unset. *"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“image name”*
 An image to display, given by its image name as shown on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. If both

bc(code). name


and

bc(code). id


are specified, the id takes precedence. Default: unset. *"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“information type”*
 One or more of the following values to display the particular pieces of information from the current image:

bc(code). id


bc(code). name


bc(code). category


bc(code). category_title


bc(code). alt


bc(code). caption


bc(code). ext


(image extension)

bc(code). author


(login name: see "image&#95;author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_author to display the author's real name)

bc(code). w


(image width)

bc(code). h


(image height)

bc(code). thumb_w


(image thumbnail width)

bc(code). thumb_h


(image thumbnail height)

bc(code). date


(timestamp of image upload: this is not very useful so consult "image&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_date for a better alternative) Default:

bc(code). caption


. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to wrap the items grabbed from the *type* attribute, specified without brackets. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1gallery_thumbnail_and_caption). Example 1: Gallery thumbnail and caption

bc(code). <txp:images category="mammals">
  <txp:thumbnail />
  <txp:image_info type="caption" wraptag="div" class="img_cap" />
</txp:images>


*What it does...*
 Grabs all images from the *mammals* category and displays the image thumbnail itself along with the image caption surrounded with

bc(code). <nowiki><div class="img_cap">...</div></nowiki>


tags. Note that the image IDs/names are not specified inside the container because they are automatically assigned from the

bc(code). <txp:images>


tag for each image in the given category.

Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h4(#example_2multiple_pieces_of_information_at_once). Example 2: Multiple pieces of information at once

bc(code). <txp:images category="birds, mammals" thumbnail="1" sort="category asc">
  <txp:if_different>
    <h4><txp:image_info type="category_title" /></h4>
  </txp:if_different>
  <txp:thumbnail wraptag="div" />
  <txp:image_info type="w, h" wraptag="div" class="img_dims" break=" x " />
  by <txp:image_info type="author" />
</txp:images>


*What it does...*
 Shows the thumbnail of each image that has an assigned thumbnail image from the *mammals* and *birds* categories and, beneath each, show its dimensions *width* x *height* along with the author of the image. Since the list has been sorted by category, the

bc(code). <txp:if_different>


conditional can be used to output the category title at the top of the list of images each time it changes.

Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail, "if&#95;different":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_different

h4(#example_3specific_image_information). Example 3: Specific image information

bc(code). <txp:image_info id="5" type="category_title" />


*What it does*
 Displays the category&#95;title of the category assigned to image ID 5.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

