\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:image_author />


The "image&#95;author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_author tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the author's name associated with the current image in an "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images list. It can *only* be used inside

bc(code). <txp:images />


.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS class attribute to be applied to the wraptag. Default: Unset. *"link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#link=“link type (boolean)”*
 Whether to hyperlink the author (1) or not (0). Default: 0. *"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section name”*
 Direct any linked author name to the nominated section instead of to the default (front) page. Default: Unset. *"this&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#this_section=“boolean”*
 If set to 1, the linked author name will direct users to an author list in the current section. Default: 0. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“boolean”*
 Whether to display the author's real name (1) or login name (0). Default: 1. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag”*
 HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around the author name. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1add_image_author_to_gallery). Example 1: Add image author to gallery

bc(code). <txp:images category="mammals">
   <a href="<txp:image_url />"><txp:thumbnail /></a>
   <div class="by">by <txp:image_author /></div>
</txp:images>


Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h4(#example_2link_to_author_list). Example 2: Link to author list

bc(code). <txp:images category="fish">
   <a href="<txp:image_url />"><txp:thumbnail /></a>
   <div class="by">by <txp:image_author link="1" /></div>
</txp:images>


*What it does...*
 Displays thumbnails and author info for each image in the *fish* category. The authors' names are hyperlinked to

bc(code). site.com/author/image/User+Name


.

Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

