\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:image_date />


The "image&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_date tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the uploaded date of the current (or given) image. Should usually be used in an "image form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms_explained, although it may be used on its own providing you specify an *id* or *name*.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 An

bc(code). id


assigned at upload of an image to display. The IDs can be found on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. Default: unset. *"format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#format=“format string”*
 Adjust the display of the date to taste. Values: any valid "strftime()":http://php.net/strftime string values. Default: the Archive date format set in "basic&#95;preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences. *"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“image name”*
 An image to display, given by its image name as shown on the "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel panel. If both

bc(code). name


and

bc(code). id


are specified, the id takes precedence. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_additional_image_information). Example 1: Display additional image information

bc(code). <txp:images category="mammals">
   <a href="<txp:image_url />"><txp:thumbnail /></a>
   <div class="img_info">
      <txp:image_info type="caption, author" break=" by " />
      <txp:image_date format="%e %b %Y" />
   </div>
</txp:images>


Other tags used: "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images, "image&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_url, "image&#95;info":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_info, "thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=thumbnail

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

