\n"projects":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=projects

This is a communal data-generation project to kickstart the ability to create infographics about Textpattern. See the "relevant post here":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?pid=265480. Further discussion can take place in that thread, or in the side of this page. Either way, _follow_ the forum thread, or _watch_ the talk page, respectively, so you're notified of new contributions.

h3(sectionedit1#overview). Overview

Read the post linked above to get an idea of the kinds of data needing researched and collated here. Come up with your own ideas too. Then create new sections below for thoughts and/or actual facts and data respective to a given data type.

h3(sectionedit2#data_types). Data types

Start new sub-sections as needed. For each data type, indicate what exactly needs collected, where and how...whatever.

h4(#cms_comparison_data). CMS comparison data

Idea here is to compare Textpattern with another CMS. A good first example might be WP because there is a lot of WP data available already in other infographics. So an approach might be to survey those infographics, pull out a set of data types to use to compare against a similar set of data types from Textpattern, and then collect the data needing expressed for Textpattern.

More interesting comparisons might be with MODx, ExpressionEngine, ProcessWire, etc, but in those cases you'll likely have to research (perhaps from system benchmarking) those other CMSs too if there's not a lot of data available online already.

h4(#textpattern_user_geography). Textpattern user geography

At the very least this means a geographical location (e.g., city, country) for each Textpattern user (thus a concentration value per location).

h4(#your_idea_here). Your idea here

Et cetera.

