\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:lang />


The "lang":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=lang tag is a _single_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with the 2-letter code of the language which is set as the site's language preference on the "Preferences Subtab":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=language_preferences, according to "RFC 1766":http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1766.txt.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1define_a_document_s_language). Example 1: Define a document's language

<pre class="code">
&lt;!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC &quot;-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN&quot; &quot;http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd&quot;&gt;

&lt;html xmlns=&quot;http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml&quot; xml:lang=&quot;&lt;txp:lang/&gt;&quot; lang=&quot;&lt;txp:lang/&gt;&quot;&gt;

&lt;head&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;&lt;txp:site_name/&gt; | &lt;txp:site_slogan/&gt;&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;meta http-equiv=&quot;Content-Language&quot; content=&quot;&lt;txp:lang/&gt;&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/head&gt;
</pre>

*Why you might do this...*
 When declaring a DTD, namespace and language that a site is served, the

bc(code). lang


tag is useful for ensuring translators, search engines and content parsers handle the document in the correct manner.

Other tags used: "site&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=site_name, "site&#95;slogan":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=site_slogan

