\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:link_description />


The "link&#95;description":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_description tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the text from the *Description* field as defined under the “links” tab. This tag is used in a “link” form or inside a "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist container tag to display information abouth the current link.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS class attribute for description text. Default: unset. *"escape":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#escape=“html”*
 Escape HTML entities in description text. Value:

bc(code). html


or unset. Default:

bc(code). html


. *"label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#label=“text”*
 Label for the top of the list. Default: unset. *"labeltag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#labeltag=“tag”*
 "HTML tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/intro/sgmltut.html#h-3.2.1 (without brackets) to wrap around label. Default: unset. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag”*
 "HTML tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/intro/sgmltut.html#h-3.2.1 (without brackets) to wrap around description. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_link_and_its_description_field_contents). Example 1: Display a link and its description field contents

bc(code). <nowiki><p><txp:link /><br /><txp:link_description /></p></nowiki>


Other tags used: "link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li><p>default value for attribute</p>
bc(code). escape


<p>changed from unset to</p>
bc(code). html

</li>
</ul>

