\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:linklist />


The "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of links from the predefined list created on the "links":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=links tab.

If used as a container, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc(code). <txp:linklist>
...contained statements...
</txp:linklist>


h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#author=“author login name”*
 Restrict to links with the specified author. Default: unset. *"auto&#95;detect":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#auto_detect=“string context”*
 List of Textpattern contexts to consider when automatically searching for links. If you wish to turn off the automatic check, set this to *auto&#95;detect=““*. You can choose from the following contexts: *category* to look in the URL for a category list *author* to look in the URL for an author list Default: *category, author* *"category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#category=“category name(s)”*
 Restrict to links from specified category/ies. Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s). Note: category names may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitized for URL use. Check the "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories tab to ensure you are using the correct names Default: unset. *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use specified form. Default:

bc(code). plainlinks


. *"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 Filter the links by this list of

bc(code). id


s assigned at link creation time. The IDs can be found on the "links":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=links panel. Default: unset. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 Number of links to display. Default:

bc(code). 0


(no limit). *"offset":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#offset=“integer”*
 The number of links to skip. Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"pageby":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#pageby=“integer or &lt;code&gt;limit&lt;/code&gt;”*
 Number of links to jump each page. Without this attribute, you cannot navigate using the "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer and [older]] tags. Usually you will want to track the

bc(code). limit


attribute. Use

bc(code). pageby="limit"


to do this, which means you will not have to amend two values if you subsequently decide to alter the

bc(code). limit


Default: unset *"realname":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#realname=“author real name”*
 Restrict to links with the specified author name. Default: unset. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). id


,

bc(code). linkname


,

bc(code). url


,

bc(code). description


,

bc(code). category


,

bc(code). date


,

bc(code). linksort


,

bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand). Default:

bc(code). linksort asc


.

"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1list_of_links_from_specified_category). Example 1: List of links from specified category

bc(code). <txp:linklist form="Links" category="general" limit="10" sort="linksort" wraptag="p" />


h4(#example_2an_ordered_list_ol_of_links). Example 2: An ordered list (ol) of links

This example uses the displayed page's category as the criterion for choosing the linklist's category.

bc(code). <txp:if_category name="100">
<txp:linklist label="First Floor" category="First" wraptag="ol" break="li" />
</txp:if_category>
<txp:if_category name="200">
<txp:linklist label="Second Floor" category="Second" wraptag="ol" break="li" />
</txp:if_category>


Other tags used: "if&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_category

h4(#example_3links_form_default_links). Example 3: Links Form (default [[links]])

bc(code). <txp:link /><br />
<txp:link_description /><br />
<txp:linkdesctitle />


The form is repeated for each link provided by "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_450). Version 4.5.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). id


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). pageby


<p>attribute added to enable paging via "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer and "older":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=older</p></li>
<li>bc(code). author


<p>and</p>
bc(code). realname


<p>attributes added</p></li>
<li>bc(code). auto_detect


<p>added to allow automatic (URL-based) contextual listings</p></li>
</ul>

