\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:link_feed_link />


The "link&#95;feed&#95;link":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_feed_link tag is a _single_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with an anchor to the site's “links” RSS feed.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#category=“category name”*
 Restrict to specified category. Note: the category name may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitized for URL use. Check the "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories tab to ensure you are using the correct name Value: category name. Default: current category. *"flavor":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#flavor=“value”*
 Whether to output a link to the RSS or Atom version of the feed. Values:

bc(code). rss


or

bc(code). atom


. Default:

bc(code). rss


. *"format":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#format=“value”*
 Whether to output a "HTML a tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/links.html#edef-A or a "HTML link tag":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/links.html#edef-LINK. Values:

bc(code). a


or

bc(code). link


. Default:

bc(code). a


. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“value”*
 "HTML title attribute":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/global.html#adef-title. Default: depends upon format used, either

bc(code). RSS feed


or

bc(code). Atom feed


.

"common&#95;attributes&#95;header":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_attributes_header

"attribute&#95;label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attribute_label "attributes&#95;wraptag&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attributes_wraptag_class

*Notes:*

<ul>
<li><p>"label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#label and "wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag are applicable only when using</p>
bc(code). format


<p>of</p>
bc(code). a


<p>("label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#label used as link text).</p></li>
</ul>

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1atom_feed_link_with_custom_label). Example 1: Atom feed link with custom label

bc(code). <txp:link_feed_link flavor="atom" label="Commerce Links" />


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). class


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_404). Version 4.0.4

<ul>
<li>bc(code). format


<p>attribute added.</p></li>
</ul>

