\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:link_to_next>


The "link&#95;to&#95;next":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_to_next tag can be used as a _single_ tag or a _container_ tag to return the permanent URL of the next article by posting date. If used as a container tag, the HTML required to output a hyperlink is returned; if used as a single tag, only the URL itself is returned.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"showalways":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#showalways=“boolean”*
 Show the wrapped value even when no next article exists. Values:

bc(code). 0


(no) or

bc(code). 1


(yes). Default:

bc(code). 0


.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1link_to_next_article_using_the_article_title). Example 1: Link to next article using the article title

bc(code). <txp:link_to_next><txp:next_title /></txp:link_to_next>


Other tags used: "next&#95;title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_title

h4(#example_2link_to_next_article_using_static_text). Example 2: Link to next article using static text

bc(code). <txp:link_to_next showalways="1">Next</txp:link_to_next>


This will always display the text “Next”, even when there is no next article.

Note: while

bc(code). **showalways**


will enable this tag to display what is wrapped inside it, "next&#95;title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_title returns nothing if there is no next title, so nothing is displayed. Use text or the returned value that you need displayed.

h4(#example_3customizing_links). Example 3: Customizing links

The container tag returns only a very basic link, which doesn't allow for customizing the link title, or adding a CSS class, etc. Using the tag in its single tag capacity opens up a lot more possibilities.

For example, to give the link an HTML title attribute of the next article's title, and also apply a class to it:

bc(code). <a href="<txp:link_to_next />" title="<txp:next_title />" class="orange"><txp:next_title /></a>


Other tags used: "next&#95;title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=next_title

