\n"main&#95;page":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=en:main_page &#124; "Function Editing Instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_function_editing_reference &#124; "txp&#95;defined&#95;functions&#95;by&#95;file&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_functions_by_file &#124; "TXP Defined Functions (Alphabetically)":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_functions

h3(sectionedit1#about_this_page). About This Page

This page is a reference for a function in the core code.

Please note that it is possible that below information has changed since the last update, and as such, you should be sure to check out the "development browser":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/ for the final definitive information about this function.

h3(sectionedit2#general_information). General Information

h4(#name). Name

bc(code). _null()


h4(#purpose). Purpose

This function simply returns null no matter what is passed in. It's main purpose seems to be it's use as a callback event in "array&#95;null&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=array_null.

This function was added to the core after the release of 4.0.4, in "revision 1983":http://dev.textpattern.com/changeset/1983.

h4(#location_in_source_code). Location in Source Code

"Textpattern/lib/txplib&#95;misc.php":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern:lib:txplib_misc.php_file :: line 67

h4(#this_page_last_updated). This Page Last Updated

ako 03:39, 26 October 2006 (UTC)

h4(#information_retrieved_from). Information Retrieved From

"$":http://ako-k.com/txpref/textpattern/lib/txplib_misc.php.html

h3(sectionedit3#parameters). Parameters

<ul>
<li>bc(code). $a

</li>
</ul>

h3(sectionedit4#examples). Examples

bc(code). $out = _null("anything");
echo($out);
// outputs nothing, as $out is NULL


