\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:output_form>


The "output&#95;form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=output_form tag can be used as a _single_ or a _container_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with the content resulting from the form called by the tag.

For the container tag usage, see the "yield":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=yield tag.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use specified form. Default: unset (no output).

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1manage_small_pieces_of_static_text). Example 1: Manage small pieces of static text

You can use this tag in combination with a form to create small pieces of text that would not otherwise be managed as a regular article. For example you might define the copyright conditions of content on your site in a form and add that to one or more places via the output&#95;form tag. Name the form *copyright*, save it as type *misc* and call the form using the tag structure...

bc(code). <nowiki><txp:output_form form="copyright" /></nowiki>


Notice that Staff Writers and Freelancers can not edit the contents of forms.

h4(#example_2manage_header_for_all_pages). Example 2: Manage header for all pages

Suppose you want to manage the

bc(code). DOCTYPE


and the

bc(code). <head>


section of your page template as a single-sourced block of content. You can create a form called *page-header* and save it as type *misc*. The content of the form might look like this (just one example):

bc(code). <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="fr" lang="fr">
<head>
<title><txp:page_title /></title>
<txp:css format="link" />
</head>


Then in each of your pages, you insert the header using...

bc(code). <nowiki><txp:output_form form="page-header" /></nowiki>


...which will add the header to all the pages automatically.

The advantage of this is that when you edit your page header, you can do so once in the form and it will update all instances of use in your different pages at the same time.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_420). Version 4.2.0

* Can be used as a container tag.

