\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:page_url />


The "page&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=page_url tag is a _single_ tag. It is used to return a particular component of the URL from the current page being displayed.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“type”*
 Specifies which component of the current page's URL will be returned. Values:

bc(code). request_uri


: current article's URL-title including any query string

bc(code). id


: current article's id on a single article page

bc(code). s


: current page's section

bc(code). c


: current page's category

bc(code). q


: search query string

bc(code). pg


: current page number in article list mode

bc(code). month


: current page's month on time based article lists

bc(code). author


: current page's author on article lists filtered by author

bc(code). status


: HTTP error response (200, 404)

bc(code). css


: current style sheet name

bc(code). page


: current page template name Default:

bc(code). request_uri


.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1show_the_current_article_s_id_http_status_and_section). Example 1: Show the current article's ID, HTTP status and section

bc(code). <p>Article ID: <txp:page_url type="id" /><br />
From section: <txp:page_url type="s" />
     (Result: <txp:page_url type="status" />)</p>


