\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:popup />


The "popup":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=popup tag is a _single_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with a popup selector for browsing by section or category.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section&#95;name”*
 Jump to the selected category for the named section. Default: unset. *"this&#95;section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#this_section=“boolean”*
 Jump to the selected category for the currently active section. Values:

bc(code). 1


(yes) or

bc(code). 0


(no). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"type":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#type=“type”*
 Section or Category. Values:

bc(code). s


(section) or

bc(code). c


(category). Default:

bc(code). c


"common&#95;attributes&#95;header":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_attributes_header

"attribute&#95;label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attribute_label "attributes&#95;wraptag&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attributes_wraptag_class

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1browse_by_category_popup_selector). Example 1: Browse by category popup selector

bc(code). <txp:popup type="c" wraptag="p" />


h4(#example_2popup_selector_with_custom_label). Example 2: Popup selector with custom label

bc(code). <txp:popup label="Browse this site" type="c" wraptag="p" />


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). class


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

