\n*This page is an unfinished draft*

h3(sectionedit1#goal). Goal

Goal to achieve: being able to automatically create a portal page, in the Yahoo Directory style. Links to websites, pages, ressources, categorized, submited by the public on the frontend. Re-use the link feature included in the core Textpattern.

h3(sectionedit2#how_is_it_different_from_the_core_feature). How is it different from the core feature?

Two items are added to the core tool: first, the ability to browse through nested categories; second the ability to handle public submissions and management.

h3(sectionedit3#how_will_it_work). How will it work

Each portal will be linked (attached) to a parent Link Category (in the Organize tab of Textpattern). This Parent Category will hold the links for that portal, including descendant (nested) categories and links inside it. For example:

* Cars
* Bikes
* Bikes paintings
** US
*** a link
*** a link
** European
*** a link
** Japanese
*** a link
*** a link
*** a link
** a link
** a link
** a link
* Boats
* Planes

Cars, Bikes, Boats and Planes are Links Categories used elsewhere. If we attach the Bike Paintings to a portal, then the US, European and Japanese Categories belong to the portal, and every links mentioned in the example.

The whole link management is handled by Textpattern, as it is now (in Content/Links).

A main Portal Tag is created, and will display the links of that portal, sorted by Textpattern, each link using a _form_. Nested categories are displayed first (sorted alphabeticaly), just like in any graphic OS shell/file management.

h4(#backend_management). Backend management

A tab is created for the Portal feature. It can contain an unlimited of portals. Each portal is defined by:

* It's name
* The “url” version of its name
* The category it's linked to

And maybe some dashboard on the portals already created, their content, etc.

h4(#submission_and_links_management). Submission and links management

