\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:recent_comments />


The "recent&#95;comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=recent_comments tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with a list of permanent links to recent comments. This list will be displayed with the format

*User's Name (Article Name)*

If used as a container, the tag must be specified as an opening and closing pair, like this:

bc(code). <txp:recent_comments>
...contained statements...
</txp:recent_comments>


h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use specified form. Default: unset. If left empty, the commenter's name and article title in which the comment was made will be permlinked. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 Number of comments to display. Default:

bc(code). 10


. *"offset":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#offset=“integer”*
 Number of coments to skip. Default: unset. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). discussid


(comment ID#)

bc(code). parentid


(article ID#)

bc(code). name


bc(code). email


bc(code). web


bc(code). ip


("IP address":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address)

bc(code). posted


bc(code). message


bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand) Default:

bc(code). posted asc


.

"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1labelled_list_of_recent_comments). Example 1: Labelled list of recent comments

bc(code). <txp:recent_comments label="Recent Comments" limit="25" wraptag="p" break="br" />


h4(#example_2recent_comments_as_an_unordered_list). Example 2: Recent comments as an unordered list

bc(code). <txp:recent_comments label="Recent Comments" wraptag="ul" break="li" />


Style for default class could go this way:

bc(code). .recent_comments {
     list-style-type:none;
}


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li>Can be used as a container tag.</li>
<li>bc(code). offset


<p>attribute added.</p></li>
</ul>

