\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:recent_articles />


The "recent&#95;articles":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=recent_articles tag is a _single_ tag which is used to produce a list of permanent links to recent articles by title.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#category=“category name”*
 Restrict to articles from specified category/ies. Note: category names may be different to the Title you typed when you created the category. Check the "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories tab to ensure you are using the correct names. Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s). Default: unset. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 Number of articles to display. Default:

bc(code). 10


. *"no&#95;widow":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#no_widow=“boolean”*
 Whether to inhibit line breaks in titles which would leave just a single word on the last line ("widows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widow_%28typesetting%29). Values:

bc(code). 0


single words allowed;

bc(code). 1


single words not allowed on their own line Default: Whatever is set in "Advanced Preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences#prevent_widowed_words_in_article_titles3f *"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section&#95;name”*
 Restrict to articles from specified section(s). Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s). Default: unset. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort resulting list. Values:

bc(code). ID


(article id#)

bc(code). AuthorID


(author)

bc(code). LastMod


(date last modified)

bc(code). LastModID


(author of last modification)

bc(code). Posted


(date posted)

bc(code). Title


bc(code). Category1


bc(code). Category2


bc(code). comments_count


bc(code). Status


bc(code). Section


bc(code). Keywords


bc(code). Image


(article image id#)

bc(code). url_title


bc(code). custom_1


through

bc(code). custom_10


(From 4.2.0 on:

bc(code). custom_//n//


)

bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand). Default:

bc(code). Posted desc


.

"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1labelled_list_of_recent_articles). Example 1: Labelled list of recent articles

bc(code). <txp:recent_articles label="Latest and Greatest" limit="5" />


h4(#example_2list_of_recent_articles_by_category). Example 2: List of recent articles by category

bc(code). <txp:recent_articles label="Latest" break="br" wraptag="p" category="code" sort="Section desc" />


h4(#example_3styled_recent_article_list). Example 3: Styled recent article list

bc(code). <txp:recent_articles label="Recently" break="li" wraptag="ul" />


*Styles could go this way*

bc(code). .recent_articles {
     list-style-type:none;
}


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_406). Version 4.0.6

* support added for comma separated lists for section and category attributes

