\nReferences on this page reflect contributions to the _Textpattern documentation project_ where information already exists online. While documentation is being developed, it is very important that such contributions are appropriately referenced in the correct chapter in which they are used. Authors and/or editors need to make sure references are added on this page accordingly! Add your reference to the appropriate Chapter list below in alphabetical order by last name (or alias if no last name attributed to original work). Use your real name and/or Web alias exactly as it reflects with regard to the originally posted work on your Web site.

The reference format follows the _Chicago Manual of Style_ for Web content, as indicated at "Online!":http://www.bedfordstmartins.com/online/index.html under "Citation Styles":http://www.bedfordstmartins.com/online/citex.html. The format of the reference is shown below (you can copy/paste it, then replace the text with your own relevant information). See an existing citation in one of the chapter lists for a real example of it's use:

*Format:*

First “Alias” Last, “_Title of Web Site  -  Title of Web Article_,” date content originally posted (day month year), &lt;URL of article&gt; (today's date).

&lt;hr&gt;

h3(sectionedit1#referenceschapter_3). References: Chapter 3

Jared Christensen, _Jaredigital.com  -  Textpattern: Flexible Article Placement_, 19 January 2005, "$":http://www.jaredigital.com/article/74/textpattern-flexible-article-placement, 24 January 2005

h3(sectionedit2#referenceschapter_4). References: Chapter 4

Jared Christensen, _Jaredigital.com  -  Textpattern: Build A Better Portfolio_, 10 January 2005, "$":http://www.jaredigital.com/article/64/textpattern-building-a-better-portfolio, 24 January 2005

Jared Christensen, _Jaredigital.com  -  Textpattern: Flexible Article Placement_, 19 January 2005, "$":http://www.jaredigital.com/article/74/textpattern-flexible-article-placement, 24 January 2005

h3(sectionedit3#referenceschapter_5). References: Chapter 5

h3(sectionedit4#referencesappendix_a). References: Appendix A

Mark “Remillard” Norton, _MOAE: Textpattern Information, Textpattern 121, Part One_, 25 October 2004, "$":http://mnorton.chaosnet.org/txp/132/textpattern-121-part-one (19 December 2004), Various.

h3(sectionedit5#referencesappendix_b). References: Appendix B

h3(sectionedit6#referencesappendix_c). References: Appendix C

Rick Silletti, _Textcastle.com, Tag Reference_, 13 September 2004, "$":http://textcastle.com/wiki/index.php?title=Alphabetical_Tag_Listing 1 March 2005.

