\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:search_input />


The "search&#95;input":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=search_input tag is a _single_ tag. This tag will provide a text entry field for search parameters and an optional button to initiate the search.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"button":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#button=“text”*
 Creates and labels a button to initiate the search. Default: unset (no button is created) *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use specified form (_i.e._, a Textpattern _Form_ to build a customized HTML form.) Default:

bc(code). search_input


. *"html&#95;id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#html_id=“id”*
 The HTML

bc(code). id


attribute assigned to the search form. Default: unset. *"match":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#match=“match type”*
 Set the search mode. Values:

bc(code). exact


: search terms must exactly match the words in the article in the order given. This mode is also automatically selected if the search term is surrounded with double quotes

bc(code). any


: any of the search terms in an article will cause it to show up in the results

bc(code). all


: all of the search terms in the article must exist (in any order) for the article to be included in the results Default

bc(code). exact


*"section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#section=“section name”*
 Use the specified section as the destination page that will display the search results. Default: unset (use the front page) *"size":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#size=“integer”*
 Sets the size of the text field. Default:

bc(code). 15


.

"common&#95;attributes&#95;header":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_attributes_header

"attribute&#95;label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attribute_label "attributes&#95;wraptag&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=attributes_wraptag_class

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_search_input_form). Example 1: Display a search input form

bc(code). <txp:search_input label="Search" button="Search" size="20" wraptag="div" />


h4(#example_2elements_required_for_building_a_customized_html_search_form). Example 2: Elements required for building a customized HTML search form

You can build your own custom search form (as a Textpattern _Form_) by specifying

bc(code). form="form-name"


inside the

bc(code). <txp:search_input />


_Tag_:

bc(code). <txp:search_input form="form-name" />


You would then need to build your Form (_i.e._,

bc(code). form-name


), and the absolute minimum _Tags_ and attributes required would be:

bc(code). <form action="<txp:site_url />">
<input type="text" name="q" />
</form>


When using a customized _Form_, Textpattern doesn't automatically wrap the HTML form output with _Form_ tags, thus you need the opening and closing

bc(code). form


tag pair. The

bc(code). name="q"


attribute and value is _required_ to initiate a search query.

Other tags used: "site&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=site_url

Textpattern, as of this writing, will use a user defined form named _search&#95;results_, or an internally defined default form if no search result form is defined by you.

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). match


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li>bc(code). html_id


<p>attribute added.</p></li>
</ul>

