\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:search_result_excerpt />


The "search&#95;result&#95;excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=search_result_excerpt tag is a _single_ tag. The tag will show the occurence of the search term with some surrounding context.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"break":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#break=“tag”*
 Trailing string. Default: ellipsis (

bc(code). <nowiki>&#8230;</nowiki>


). *"hilight":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#hilight=“tag”*
 HTML tag to be used for search term matches in excerpt text, without brackets. Default:

bc(code). strong


*"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 Maximum number of search match excerpts per search result. Default:

bc(code). 5


.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_up_to_15_search_excerpts_with_a_search_results_form). Example 1: Display up to 15 search excerpts with a search results form

bc(code). <h3><txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink></h3>
<p><txp:search_result_excerpt hilight="p" limit="15" />
<small><txp:permlink><txp:permlink /></txp:permlink> · <txp:posted /></small></p>


Other tags used: "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink, "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title, "posted":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=posted

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_406). Version 4.0.6

<ul>
<li>bc(code). break


<p>added</p></li>
</ul>

