\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:search_result_count />


The "search&#95;result&#95;count":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=search_result_count tag is a _single_ tag that returns the number of articles returned by an article tag. Use "if&#95;search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_search to count search results or use in regular page after the "article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article tag. If you need the results' count _before_ the list of results, use the article tag in conjunction with

bc(code). pgonly="1"


(see Example 3).

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"text":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#text=“text”*
 Text to display with the number of matches. Default:

bc(code). articles found


h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

Note: The "if&#95;search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_search conditional tag is required to recognize actual search results, without them the number of articles is returned by default.

h4(#example_1display_a_number_of_matches). Example 1: Display a number of matches

bc(code). <txp:if_search>
<txp:article />
<txp:search_result_count />
</txp:if_search>


*What this does...*
 If the visitor is searching for articles, it will show the number of articles that matched the search term (e.g. 5) as follows: “5 articles found”.

Other tags used: "if&#95;search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_search, "article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article

h4(#example_2number_of_matches_with_custom_text). Example 2: Number of matches with custom text

bc(code). <txp:if_search>
<txp:search_result_count text="Hits" />
</txp:if_search />


*What this does...*
 It displays the number of articles returned (e.g. 5) as follows: “5 Hits”.

Other tags used: "if&#95;search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_search

h4(#example_3search_result_count_above_results). Example 3: Search result count above results

bc(code). <txp:if_search>
<txp:article pgonly="1" limit="20" />
<txp:search_result_count text="Hits" />
<txp:article limit="20" />
</txp:if_search />


Note: The “pgonly” attribute sets the article tag to return pagination statistics without rendering the article list. Care must be taken to remain consistent with article tag attributes to keep statistics accurate.

Other tags used: "article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article, "if&#95;search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_search

