\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:section_list />


The "section&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=section_list tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of linked sections. When used as a container tag, it is used as an opening and closing pair, like this:

bc(code). <txp:section_list>
...contained statements...
</txp:section_list>


h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"active&#95;class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#active_class=“class name” (only works in the _single_ tag without the &lt;code&gt;form&lt;/code&gt; attribute.)*
 "CSS class name":http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/struct/global.html#adef-class to be applied to the “active” or current link in a list. Default: unset *"default&#95;title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#default_title=“text”*
 Text used as a title for the “default” section when

bc(code). include_default


is set to

bc(code). 1


. Default: "Site Name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences#site_name_1. *"exclude":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#exclude=“section name(s)”*
 Comma-separated list of section names to exclude from the list. Sections takes precedence over exclude. Default: unset (none) *"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use the specified form to process each included section. *"include&#95;default":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#include_default=“boolean”*
 Whether to include “default” section in section list. Default:

bc(code). 0


(no) *"sections":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sections=“section name(s)”*
 Comma-separated list of section names to include in the list, displayed in specified order (unless overridden by the sort attribute). Default: unset (all sections) *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting list. Values:

bc(code). name


bc(code). page


bc(code). css


bc(code). is_default


bc(code). in_rss


bc(code). on_frontpage


bc(code). searchable


bc(code). title


bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand) Default:

bc(code). name asc


"common&#95;presentational&#95;attributes":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=common_presentational_attributes

h3(sectionedit1#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_linked_section_list). Example 1: Display a linked section list

Adding the label “Sections” and wrapping the output in a paragraph with each section on its own line:

bc(code). <txp:section_list label="Sections" wraptag="p" break="br" />


h4(#example_2display_a_styled_section_list). Example 2: Display a styled section list

bc(code). <txp:section_list break="li" wraptag="ul" />


*Styles could go this way*

<pre class="code">
.section_list {

list-style-type: none;

}
</pre>

h4(#example_3set_active_class_using_the_container_tag). Example 3: Set active class using the container tag

This code will add

bc(code). class="active"


to the

bc(code). <nowiki><li></nowiki>


element around the “current” section in the list.

bc(code). <txp:section_list wraptag="ul" break="">
<li<txp:if_section name='<txp:section />'> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
<txp:section title="1" link="1" />
</li>
</txp:section_list>


h3(sectionedit2#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

<ul>
<li>Can be used as a container tag.</li>
<li>bc(code). form


<p>attribute added.</p></li>
</ul>

