\n"mininav&#95;tag&#95;basics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tag_basics

h3(sectionedit1#self-closed_tags). Self-closed Tags

A self-closed tag is the most basic form of a Texpattern tag. Its structure is similar to that of a self-closed tag in HTML (e.g.,

bc(code). <nowiki><br /></nowiki>


), most notably the inclusion of the terminating forward slash. Any self-closed Textpattern tag has the following syntactic structure:

bc(code). <txp:tagname />


.

The tag is replaced by contents when Textpattern displays a page.

Self-closed tags can usually take attributes. For example, the following "article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=article tag demonstrates using the

bc(code). form


and

bc(code). limit


attributes:

bc(code). <txp:article form="formName" limit="15" />


.

Most Textpattern tags are self-closed tags. The other type of tag is the container tag.

h3(sectionedit2#container_tags). Container Tags

Container tags are composed of both an opening and closing tag element, giving them the syntactic structure of...

bc(code). <txp:tag_name> ...content added here... </txp:tag_name>


The content that is added between container tags may be either text or other TXP tags.

Typical container tags are the *permlink* tag:

bc(code). <txp:permlink></txp:permlink>


and all *conditional tags*. Container tags are used when something has to be *enclosed* by tags *instead of being* *_replaced_* by them.

A link is a good example: you have a text string (or a title tag) around which you want to wrap an HTML anchor element.

bc(code). <txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink>
bla bla
<txp:permlink>Read more...</txp:permlink>


would turn into something like:

bc(code). <a href="/article/42/this-article-title">This article title</a>
bla bla
<a href="/article/42/this-article-title">Read more...</a>


