\nThese instructions describe how to get the latest Textpattern sourcecode from the "Subversion":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#subversion repository to your Windows machine using a graphical user interface application called TortoiseSVN. After that you can transfer the Textpattern package to your Web server using whatever normal means you use (e.g., FTP, SFTP, etc.), or simply use the intallation on your local machine.

h3(sectionedit1#the_process). The Process

h4(#using_tortoisesvn_to_download_the_source_files). Using TortoiseSVN to Download the Source Files

<ol>
<li>Download and install "TortoiseSVN":http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/.</li>
<li>Create a local folder with a catchy, but meaningful, name (such as *TxP&#95;via&#95;Tortoise*). The folder you create here is called your “source” folder, and you should keep it because whenever you update Textpattern, this is the folder you first update via TortoiseSVN.</li>
<li>Right click on the new folder and you will see some new options for TortoiseSVN.</li>
<li><p>Select 'Checkout' and use the following path for the 'URL of Repository':</p>
bc(code). <nowiki>http://</nowiki>

</li>
</ol>

h4(#separating_the_txp_core_files_from_the_svn_files). Separating the TxP Core files from the SVN Files

Whether you now intend to use Textpattern on a local Web server or transfer the files to a remote Web server, you need to separate the SVN files from the Textpattern core files (the SVN stuff does not hurt anything, but it takes up a lot of unnecessary space if you don't separate it out). The following steps are aimed at using Textpattern locally, and will automatically copy all of the necessary Textpattern code and leave out all of the internal SVN files.

<ol>
<li>Right click on the new folder you created that now has the Textpattern source.</li>
<li>Select _TortoiseSVN &gt; Export_ from the menu.</li>
<li><p>Select the root of your web server as the folder. On Apache it would be something like</p>
bc(code). c:\apache\htdocs


<p>. All of the Textpattern code, sans .svn files, will be copied to a new directory.</p></li>
<li>Now just rename the new directory in your web root and navigate to the setup script in your browser.</li>
</ol>

h4(#updating_your_source_folder_with_new_textpattern_release). Updating Your Source Folder with New Textpattern Release

To update your local code from the SVN repository, right click on your Textpattern source folder and select _Update_.

