\nThis is an alternate approach to using "Subversion":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#subversion with Windows. If you are not comfortable working in the command prompt, you are advised to use the "windows&#95;machine&#95;graphical&#95;user&#95;interface&#95;gui&#95;approach":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=windows_machine_graphical_user_interface_gui_approach.

The Textpattern development team encourages the use of Subversion over wget whenever possible. See the FAQ entry "How do I fetch the current development version?":http://textpattern.com/faq/103/how-do-i-fetch-the-current-development-version for more information. Basically, it's recommended you use the "svn&#95;install&#95;with&#95;tortoise&#95;svn":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=svn_install_with_tortoise_svn instead.

There are two possible methods to this approach:

# Manual (with an additional sub-method to make this a little easier)
# Automated (by creating a shortcut that you can re-use)

Either method requires following the *Setup Instructions* first.

h3(sectionedit1#setup_instructions). Setup Instructions

# Download "wget":http://allserv.ugent.be/~bpuype/wget/#download for Windows.
# Save wget to the WINDOWS folder. Saving to this folder makes wget a LOT easier to use, and won't harm your Windows system by being there.

h3(sectionedit2#manual_instructions). Manual Instructions

# Create a folder where you'd like to save Textpattern (e.g., a folder on your desktop named “txp”).

# Follow _Start &gt; Run_. If you're on WinXP type *cmd*; otherwise, type *command* (WinXP doesn't seem to like long filenames in command). Click _OK_. You should now have your little command prompt window open.

# In the command prompt, type *cd* and then a space. Click on the folder you created in step 3, and drag it onto the prompt window. It should automatically bring over the folders location (in double-quotes on XP, shortname in 98). Click _Enter_. You should now be sitting in that folder.

# Type in (case-sensitive)

bc(code). wget -O rev.txt -q <__yamdwe_nowiki>0</__yamdwe_nowiki>textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source


then hit _Enter_.

This will create a text file containing the revision's id number. *Don't skip this step*, because you won't be able to find or figure this number out later.

It's actually just a copy of the html file, "$":http://textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/"txp&#95;current&#95;version":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=txp_current_version/source, but it serves its purpose well: it contains the revision number of the copy of Textpattern you downloaded, which you will need later when reporting bugs.

# Type in (case-sensitive)

bc(code). wget -e robots=off -r -q -np -nH --cut-dirs=4 -R index.html <__yamdwe_nowiki>1</__yamdwe_nowiki>textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source


then hit _Enter_. This will download Textpattern into a folder named _txp_.

This will take a little longer than the first command, so don't close the window, just wait until it finishes (you may minimize the window while it downloads). You will know that it is working by the fact that as each file is being downloaded, the title bar of the command window will show the download progress of the current file.

The download is a little over 900kb in size, as it is not compressed into a zip file. The length of time the download takes will depend upon how fast your internet download connection speed is.

# Once it is finished downloading, you'll be returned to the command prompt. Type in *exit*, and then hit _Enter_.

h4(#slightly_quicker_manual_method). Slightly Quicker Manual Method

If you have “Insert Mode” enabled for the command prompt, it's simple copy and paste (via the mouse, no keyboard shortcuts) instead of typing in the WGET command.

To enable this on WinXP:

# Open the command prompt as above.
# On the titlebar, right-click on the prompt's window title.
# Underneath the choices for moving the window, click on _Properties_
# Check the box next to _Insert Mode_.
# You'll get asked, _Apply Properties to Shortcut_. Choose _Modify shortcut that opened this window_ and click _OK_.

You are now able to paste into the command prompt, and may follow the directions above, using copy and paste instead of typing in the command.

It should be similar instructions for other versions of Windows.

h3(sectionedit3#automated_instructions). Automated Instructions

These instructions are confirmed to work on *Windows XP/Vista*.

First, open up a text editor, like notepad. Add the following to it (case-sensitive, each command on one line, for a combined total of two lines):

bc(code). wget -P txp -O rev.txt -q <__yamdwe_nowiki>2</__yamdwe_nowiki>textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source


bc(code). wget -P txp -e robots=off -r -q -np -nH --cut-dirs=4 -R index.html <__yamdwe_nowiki>3</__yamdwe_nowiki>textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source


Next, save the file as *current-txp.cmd* to your desktop (for ease-of-use; you can move it elsewhere later).

Double-click on the file to start the download of the current version of Textpattern, which be downloaded to a folder named “txp”.

Finally, save this shortcut file to use for the next time you want to update.

Remember that it *will over-write* any existing Textpattern files residing within the same folder.

h3(sectionedit4#keeping_updated_on_the_latest_revision). Keeping Updated On The Latest Revision

One very easy way to keep updated on the latest revision available is to make use of the "Textpattern &quot;Timeline&quot;":http://code.google.com/p/textpattern/source/list.

