\n"main&#95;page":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=en:main_page &#124; "Function Editing Instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_function_editing_reference &#124; "txp&#95;defined&#95;functions&#95;by&#95;file&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_functions_by_file &#124; "TXP Defined Functions (Alphabetically)":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_defined_functions

h3(sectionedit1#about_this_page). About This Page

This page is a reference for a function in the core code. Please note that it is possible that below information has changed since the last update, and as such, you should be sure to check out the "development browser":http://dev.textpattern.com/browser/ for the final definitive information about this function.

h3(sectionedit2#general_information). General Information

h4(#name). Name

bc(code). TextileThis()


h4(#purpose). Purpose

_(needed)_

h4(#about). About

This function is part of the "textile":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textile class, used to parse formated text into html.

h4(#location_in_source_code). Location in Source Code

"textpattern/lib/classTextile.php":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=textpattern:lib:class_textile.php_file :: line 274

h4(#this_page_last_updated). This Page Last Updated

ako 17:23, 18 October 2006 (UTC)

h4(#information_retrieved_from). Information Retrieved From

"$":http://www.ako-k.com/txpref/textpattern/lib/classTextile.php.source.html

h3(sectionedit3#parameters). Parameters

<ul>
<li>bc(code). $text

</li>
<li>bc(code). $lite=<__yamdwe_nowiki>0</__yamdwe_nowiki>

</li>
<li>bc(code). $encode=<__yamdwe_nowiki>1</__yamdwe_nowiki>

</li>
<li>bc(code). $noimage=<__yamdwe_nowiki>2</__yamdwe_nowiki>

</li>
<li>bc(code). $strict=<__yamdwe_nowiki>3</__yamdwe_nowiki>

</li>
<li>bc(code). $rel=<__yamdwe_nowiki>4</__yamdwe_nowiki>

</li>
</ul>

h3(sectionedit4#examples). Examples

_(needed)_

