\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:title />


The "title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=title tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the title of the article being displayed. It is usually used in an article form.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"no&#95;widow":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#no_widow=“boolean”*
 Control "widows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widow_%28typesetting%29 and overrule _widows_ setting in "Advanced Preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=advanced_preferences#prevent_widowed_words_in_article_titles3f. Values: 0 - allow the last word in the article title to appear on its own line, i.e. the title content is rendered unchanged 1 - ensure the last word in the article title is not left on its own line. Textpattern inserts a non-breaking space between the last two words Default: As set in _Advanced Preferences_.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_an_article_title). Example 1: Display an article title

bc(code). <h2><txp:title /></h2>
<div class="post">
  <p><txp:author /> @ <txp:posted /></p>
  <txp:body />
</div>


*What this does...*
 Shows the current article title as the page heading, a few other pieces of information such as the article's author and posted date, then the article body itself.

Other tags used: "author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=author, "posted":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=posted, "body":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=body

h4(#example_2display_a_hyperlinked_title). Example 2: Display a hyperlinked title

bc(code). <txp:permlink><txp:title /></txp:permlink>


*What this does...*
 Wraps a permanent link to the current article around its title.

Other tags used: "permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=permlink

