\n"mininav&#95;tags":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tags

bc(code). <txp:txp_die />


The "txp&#95;die":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp_die tag is a _single_ tag that will terminate normal page rendition and return the given status to the user agent (browser, search engine crawler, feed aggregator). An error page will also be returned to the user agent.

The status can be displayed by the "error&#95;status":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=error_status tag. A textual message can be associated with the error status and retrieved with the "error&#95;message":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=error_message tag. See also: "custom&#95;error&#95;pages":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=custom_error_pages.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"msg":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#msg=“message”*
 Textual representation of the error condition. *"status":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#status=“number”*
 Numerical representation of the error condition. Typical values:

bc(code). 301


,

bc(code). 302


,

bc(code). 307


,

bc(code). 404


,

bc(code). 403


,

bc(code). 401


,

bc(code). 408


,

bc(code). 410


,

bc(code). 304


,

bc(code). 503


, or any other "valid status code":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes Default:

bc(code). **503**


. *"url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#url=“url”*
 Redirects to the specified URL. Can be used with redirection statuses

bc(code). 301


,

bc(code). 302


and

bc(code). 307


.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1force_a_404_not_found_error). Example 1: Force a 404 'not found' error

bc(code). <txp:txp_die status="404" />


h4(#example_2issue_a_permanent_redirect). Example 2: Issue a permanent redirect

bc(code). <txp:txp_die status="301" url="http://example.com/new/location" />


h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_450). Version 4.5.0

<ul>
<li>bc(code). url


<p>attribute added</p></li>
</ul>

