\nYou have Textpattern installed somewhere already and now you want to either...

h3(sectionedit1#upgrade_to_the_newest_stable_release). Upgrade to the newest stable release

In the root folder of your installation is a *README.txt* file that provides *simple upgrading instructions*. The same instructions are repeated below for convenience. See "detailed&#95;upgrading&#95;instructions":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=detailed_upgrading_instructions if you need more stepwise explanation.

# Log out of the admin-side.
# Verify the existence of a working database and file backup.
# Replace the three files in your main installation directory (index.php, css.php and .htaccess), everything in your /rpc/ directory and everything in your /textpattern/ directory (except config.php) with the corresponding files in this distribution. css.php and /rpc/ might not yet exist in your current site.
# When you login to the admin-side, the relevant upgrade script is run automatically. Please take a look into diagnostics to find out whether there are any errors and whether the correct version number is displayed.
# Verify all preference settings.

Regarding step #4: Upgrades from versions below 4.2.0 will present this warning upon your very first login to the admin-side:

Warning: Unknown column 'user&#95;name' in 'where clause' select name, val from txp&#95;prefs where prefs&#95;id=1 AND user&#95;name= _in /path/to/your/site/textpattern/lib/txplib&#95;db.php on line xx_

This is expected behaviour for the very first login after an upgrade. *Every further move in the admin side must not throw any error message*.

h3(sectionedit2#downgrade_to_a_previous_stable_release). Downgrade to a previous stable release

*Downgrading* your installation to a previous release is *not advised for security reasons*. The only time you might want to do this is if you've upgraded to the newest stable release and found that one or more of your plugin functionalities are not working because they have not yet been updated by their developers to match the latest Textpattern code.

Downgrading is done exactly as upgrading. Follow the instructions for upgrading above but using the earlier Textpattern version you need.

(Link to list of old Txp versions needed here! — Destry 08:02, 3 June 2013 (UTC))

h3(sectionedit3#apply_the_latest_nightly_build). Apply the latest nightly build

Nightlies are discrete versions of Textpattern code beyond the current stable release, but functional enough for testing purposes. *They are not intended for production sites!* People who upgrade to nightlies are generally developers and designers who will report bugs and give other feedback to core developers.

Download the latest nightly from Textpattern's "Download":http://textpattern.com/download page.

Upgrading to a nightly build is done just like a regular upgrade. See the upgrade instructions above.

h3(sectionedit4#explore_the_bleeding_edge_development). Explore the bleeding edge development

*For advanced users only!* The latest, *unstable*, bleeding-edge code is available at a "subversion repo on Google Code":http://textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/development/4.x/.

If you're thinking about testing this code, then we shouldn't have to tell you what "subversion":http://subversion.apache.org/ is or how to use it. If you don't know, then you don't belong messing about here.

