\nHello users. Please add your helpful feedback in either the Raves or Rants section, as appropriate. Note, you need to create a user account before adding your comments. If you prefer not to create a user account, please post your feedback in the "User Manual":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=5261 thread in the Textpattern Forum. If you post in here, *please use the signature button to notate your comments*.

h3(sectionedit1#what_has_been_helpful_raves). What has been helpful? (Raves)

h3(sectionedit2#what_is_needed_rants). What is needed? (Rants)

*_wizmo wrote:_* I think you need a section for those of us who have hosting with Textdrive already. Or would we just skip ahead to Chapter 3 then?

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): This is a good notion, and in response I have added a section in Chapter 2 for installation on TextDrive servers, which seems necessary to put in at that level of _TextBook_. It's not actually a how-to, it's simply referring to the sloppy info already located in the "TextDrive Forum":http://forum.textdrive.com/index.php about installing Textpattern on TextDrive servers. Outside of this little intallation issue, and as far as the _TextBook_ is concerned (which is for all TxP users, no matter what host), all discussion of Textpattern as relevent to TextDrive should probably be directed to the TextDrive forum (which is seemingly the wishes of Dean and Co anyway). (_end of Destry comment_)

*_wizmo wrote:_* And frankly, while the prospectus sounds great, for us gui interface brats, this stuff is NOT simple and intuitive. I teach eight graphic design programs, but am not a code warrior, so when those three-and-four-letter acronyms start flying, my brain goes into meltdown mode.

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): Yes, I agree that Textpattern is not immediately intuitive (for me the complex tag system alone makes it anything but simple to fully understand, at least not in quick fashion). This is why I initiated _TextBook_, primarily for new users, and with a priority for non-developers. Good point about acronyms; they at the very least they will be addressed in the documentation. (_end of Destry comment_)

*_wizmo wrote:_* I'm really glad and grateful that you're taking on this project, but so far I haven't been able to get much closer to being up and running in textpattern.

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): It's a relatively new effort, and yes, Chapter 3 is an important chapter in the works. Just so you understand, the _TextBook_ effort is intended as a grassroots community effort. All contributions to it come from the user community on a volunteer basis. Sections are added when people either have something to offer, have the time to offer it, or are willing to offer it at all. I am certainly willing, and do so when I can, but I'm mainly limited by time and by having the know-how to write certain sections. There are users more knowledgeable than I, but if they don't want to contribute, then there's not much that can be done. (_end of Destry comment_)

*_wizmo wrote:_* I've designed sites using dreamweaver and Flash (I teach them), I know basic html, and can cut and paste freebie javascript into my sites to get simple interactivity and tweak that a bit when I put my mind to it, but all the big-boy lingo, the php mysql XLML stuff, is beyond me. I use CSS for text, but am just dipping my toes in the shallow end as far as using it for layout, and mind you, I'm using it in Dreamweaver, not writing it from scratch.

Textdrive is actually my host, and it's my understanding that I already have a copy of what I need to get going in Textpattern right in my root directory. I can access the folder using DAV. I already have a website there, so this would not be my primary page.

My goal is to set up a blog for myself, and be able to add text and photos, and accept comments. I'd also like to have an archive of old posts, a profile, and list of other blogs I like. Pretty standard stuff. That's it. I'm a designer, but I like things on the minimal side, so I don't need to get wildly fancy.

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): I would again redirect you to my first comment above. (_end of Destry comment_)

*_wizmo wrote:_* So I took a look at TextBook, and even though I read the chapters you have finished, it's still daunting to me. I think I can skip chapter two because I already have Textdrive, but you haven't added the contents of chapter three yet, and that's what I think I'll need to get up and running.

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): I would again redirect you to my third comment above. (_end of Destry comment_)

*_wizmo wrote:_* I'm not in a rush. I have a blog on blogger, but I want to put photos up (they only have photo uploading for PCs and I'm using a mac) and just get more standards compliant and sophisticated under the hood.

I'll check back to see if you've made progress on Chapter 3.

Thanks.

wizmo aka the mean miss bean aka susan

 - Destry 15:00, 6 Jan 2005 (GMT): Thanks you, wizmo, for the feedback. Do utilize the "TextDrive Forum":http://forum.textdrive.com/index.php for your specific TextDrive questions.

 - Rick 02:41, 20 Jan 2005 (GMT): I am interested in a detailed TXP tag reference. I would like to have a quick guide that displays the available attributes for a tag and perhaps links to more detailed information.

 - Destry 14:33, 22 Jan 2005 (GMT): Hi Rick...Have you seen Kusor's tag manual (see Appendix C). Generally people are happy with that. However, I've always felt that something could, and should, be added to TextBook. Would you care to elaborate on a format for TextBook, that might help get it rolling.

 - Rick 18:49, 23 Jan 2005 (GMT) Yes, I have seen Kursor`s tag manual and did all my initial learning from it. I posted a couple of examples of what I would like see here. I have a whole series already written. My concern is getting a standard structure for the tag reference before too much information is entered - feedback would be helpful.

 - Destry 09:55, 24 Jan 2005 (GMT): Rick, I posted my thoughts in the Community Portal &gt; Wiki Organization &gt; "TxP Tag Definitions Appendex: Organization and Labeling":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=wiki_organization#txp_tag_definitions_appendex_organization_and_labeling, which is a better place to collaborate on this topic.

