\n &#42; Parser: full nesting support, allowing unlimited nesting of identical tags.

* Parser: attribute values are parsed when enclosed in single quotes.
* Parser: unquoted attribute values are deprecated and will result in warnings when site status is not set to 'live'. Fix your templates and use double quotes to delimit attribute values.
* Feature: Expiry time for articles, accompanied by related tags
* Speed: various components of the parsing process have been optimized, which compensates the impact of increased parser complexity, resulting in slightly faster parsing speed
* New tags: &lt;txp:expires /&gt;, &lt;txp:if&#95;expired&gt;, &lt;txp:if&#95;expires&gt;
* New tag: &lt;txp:if&#95;keywords&gt;
* New tags: &lt;txp:if&#95;first&#95;section&gt;, &lt;txp:if&#95;last&#95;section&gt;
* New tags: &lt;txp:if&#95;first&#95;category&gt;, &lt;txp:if&#95;last&#95;category&gt;
* New tag: &lt;txp:if&#95;variable&gt;
* New tag: &lt;txp:modified /&gt;
* New tag: &lt;txp:rsd /&gt; specifies the Really Simple Discovery endpoint for XML-RPC clients
* New tag: &lt;txp:variable /&gt;
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:article /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:article /&gt; allows new attributes 'wraptag' and 'break'
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:article&#95;custom /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:article&#95;custom /&gt; allows new attributes 'wraptag' and 'break'
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:article&#95;custom /&gt; allows comma separated list for 'id' attributes (this doesn't imply a sort order).
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:category /&gt; applies 'class' attribute to the &lt;a&gt; element when wraptag is empty.
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:category&#95;list /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:category&#95;list /&gt; accepts a 'children' attribute which limits the list depth to one level below the parent category when set to '0'.
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:file&#95;download&#95;list /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:if&#95;article&#95;id /&gt; defaults to the current article's id.
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:linklist /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:recent&#95;comments /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:recent&#95;comments /&gt; allows new attribute 'offset'
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:search&#95;input /&gt; allows new attribute 'html&#95;id' to set the form's id.
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:section /&gt; applies the 'class' attribute to the &lt;a&gt; element when wraptag is empty.
* Changed tag: &lt;txp:section&#95;list /&gt; can be used as a container tag
* XML-RPC: server now included in main TXP package, disabled by default
* Articles tab: added 'article image' and 'keywords' as search criteria
* Categories tab: categories cannot be accidentally deleted if they are still in use.
* Write tab: Concurrent article edit warning
* Write tab: WYSIWYG preview for draft/pending/hidden articles
* Images tab: added 'alternate text' and 'caption' as search criteria
* Images tab: multi-edit functionality (delete, change category)
* Images tab: setting both thumb width and height to zero or empty values disables auto-thumbnailing
* Links tab: multi-edit functionality (change category)
* Files tab: multi-edit functionality (delete, change category)
* Users tab: multi-edit functionality (delete, reset password, change privilege)
* Users tab: sortable and paginated author list
* Users tab: 'last login' shown in author list
* Plugins tab: User-selectable plugin load order
* Plugins tab: sortable and multi-edit functionality (change order/status, delete)
* More verbose “First Post” article with basic instructions and helpful links.
* Developer: getTree() receives an optional 'table' name, returned array contains 'parent' field.
* Developer: New event 'pretext&#95;set'.
* Developer: new plugin type '3' for admin-only plugins (0=public, 1=admin+public, 2=library)
* Developer: fInput now uses htmlspecialchars on the value parameter (previously only escape&#95;title)
* Developer: pagelinkurl() calls a custom URL handler if present. NB: The custom URL handlers function signature is modified, as an additional flag discerns pagelinks from permlinks.
* Developer: $txpcfg['ftindex&#95;columns'] may contain an arrray of column names defining the fulltext-indexed set. A corresponding MySQL fulltext index must be established previously.
* jQuery 1.2.6
* Ability to connect to the MySQL server through SSL

