\n &#42; Fixed security issue on public-side (XSS) (thanks zarathu)

<ul>
<li>Fixed path disclosure issue (thanks zarathu)</li>
<li>Search for posted and last modifed dates in article list</li>
<li><p>New tag:</p>
bc(code). <txp:hide />


<p>as a container for comments and other internal content</p></li>
<li><p>Changed tags:</p>
bc(code). <txp:comments />


<p>,</p>
bc(code). <txp:category_list />


<p>,</p>
bc(code). <txp:section_list />


<p>and</p>
bc(code). <txp:image_index />


<p>support 'sort' attribute</p></li>
<li>Distribute jQuery 1.1.2 as a default JavaScript library</li>
<li>Keep image properties on replacement</li>
<li>Add 'delete thumbnail' function</li>
<li>Support back end branding: customizable logo and color bar</li>
<li>Table sort indicators</li>
<li>Textile improvements</li>
<li>Fix non-utf8 mails (iso 8859-1)</li>
<li>better wrapping in admin-interface to prevent horizontal scrollbar</li>
<li>Add comment status to comment notification mails</li>
<li>Fix “infinite” pagination in rare edge cases</li>
<li>Work around apache bug for file-downloads (in connection with mod&#95;deflate)</li>
<li>Fix error messages on wrong logins for older mysql versions</li>
<li>Fix "comment spam blacklist false positives":http://textpattern.com/faq/243/comment-spam-blacklist-false-positives</li>
<li>Fix "file&#95;download-tag from showing the same url for different downloads":http://textpattern.com/faq/244/file_download_-shows-same-url-multiple-times</li>
<li>Fix "disappearing comment preferences in certain ciscumstances":http://textpattern.com/faq/257/comment-preferences-are-missing</li>
<li>Fix “active class” in section&#95;list, category&#95;list</li>
<li>Better cooperation with some proxies (and other HTTP/1.0 clients)</li>
<li>Smarter comment submit button emphasises preview step</li>
<li>Optionally hide spam comments in back end list</li>
<li>Truncate longish article category titles in the write screen</li>
<li>Handle thumbnailing of larger images</li>
<li>Better MoveableType import</li>
<li>Fix some more IIS issues</li>
<li>New callback event: 'textpattern&#95;end'</li>
<li>New callback event: 'ping'</li>
<li><p>New tag:</p>
bc(code). <txp:article_url_title />

</li>
<li><p>Changed tag:</p>
bc(code). <txp:permlink />


<p>loses default title attribute</p></li>
<li><p>Changed tag:</p>
bc(code). <txp:file_download_link />


<p>returns filename as an additional URL part</p></li>
<li>"Many, many minor improvements":http://code.google.com/p/textpattern/source/browse/development/4.0/?action=stop_on_copy&rev=2443&stop_rev=1963</li>
</ul>

