\n &#42; Feature: Extendable admin-side themes. “Classic” and “Remora” theme contained in the core package, user-contributed themes available from "$":http://textgarden.org/layouts/?c=txp-admin

* Feature: Capability for multi-site file system layouts (thanks: Sam Weiss)
* Feature: Role-based permission checks for images, links and files
* Feature: Save various pane toggle states
* Feature: Store author of links and files
* Feature: Automatic adjustment for DST (requires PHP 5.2+, fall back to manual adjustment for servers running older PHPs)
* Feature: Timezone selector in preferences (requires PHP 5.2+, GMT-based selector as a fallback)
* Feature: Default event preference setting (thanks: Mary)
* Fixed: PHP 5.3 compatibility (thanks: Mary)
* Fixed: When a user is deleted, reassign her assets
* Fixed: Tag builders for &lt;txp:category /&gt; and &lt;txp:section /&gt;
* Fixed: Bogus “Article tags cannot be used outside an article context” warning in &lt;txp:else /&gt;-branch of &lt;txp:if&#95;keywords&gt;
* Fixed: Removed superflous &amp; encoding for article titles in &lt;txp:recent&#95;comments /&gt;
* Fixed: &lt;txp:expires&gt; uses “class” and “wraptag” attributes as intended
* New tag: &lt;txp:link&#95;id /&gt; (thanks: Rick Siletti)
* New tag: &lt;txp:yield /&gt;
* New tag: &lt;txp:if&#95;article&#95;image&gt;
* Changed: Article timestamp is left untouched for draft, pending, or hidden articles published into the future.
* Changed: &lt;txp:file&#95;download&#95;list /&gt; tag accepts a comma-separated list of file ids in a new “id” attribute (thanks: Rick Silletti)
* Developer: pluggable&#95;ui() serves as a base for custom admin-side user interface panels, see new '&#42;&#95;ui' events below
* Developer: New events 'log&#95;it', 'plugin&#95;lifecycle', 'plugin&#95;prefs', 'txp&#95;die', 'article&#95;ui', 'author&#95;ui', 'category&#95;ui', 'file&#95;ui', 'image&#95;ui', 'link&#95;ui', 'prefs&#95;ui', 'section&#95;ui'
* Developer: Per-user preferences
* Developer: Increased maximum plugin code size to MEDIUMTEXT (16 MiB)
* Developer: Increased maximum preferences value size to TEXT (64 KiB)
* Developer: Core support for unlimited custom fields (thanks: Gerhard Lazu)
* Developer: Thumbnail dimensions are stored in the image table
* Developer: Sending requests to the admin-side with URL parameter “app&#95;mode” set to “async” suppress any default admin-side output. Think AJAX.
* Developer: Cached plugins are loaded in natural sort order.
* Developer: Deprecated cleanfInput(), escape&#95;output(), escape&#95;tags(), getAtt(), gAtt(), and input() functions. These will be removed in next release.
* Developer: Plugins can flag their interest in lifecycle events (install, uninstall, activate, deactivate). &#64;see "$":http://svn.textpattern.com/development/4.x-plugin-template/
* Developer: Optional capability to jump to a plugin's options from the plugin tab. &#64;see "$":http://svn.textpattern.com/development/4.x-plugin-template/
* jQuery 1.3.2

