\n &#42; Security: Fixed two XSS vulnerabilities (thanks Jorge Hoya and High-Tech Bridge). Updates are recommended.

* New Textpattern logo by courtesy of Philipp Schilling (belipe, "$":http://www.psgd.de). Happy retirement to The Carver!
* Feature: Optional alternate URL for static image resources. Defined in constant “ihu”.
* Feature: /category and /author lists for all content types, with conditionals and pagination
* Feature: Optional top-level 'Home' tab for dashboard plugins
* Feature: File titles
* Feature: Multiple categories/sections in feeds (via &lt;_yamdwe&#95;nowiki&gt;0&lt;/_yamdwe&#95;nowiki&gt; and &lt;_yamdwe&#95;nowiki&gt;1&lt;/_yamdwe&#95;nowiki&gt;)
* New tags: &lt;txp:images /&gt;, &lt;txp:image&#95;info /&gt;, &lt;txp:image&#95;url /&gt;, &lt;txp:image&#95;date /&gt;, &lt;txp:if&#95;thumbnail /&gt;.
* New tags: &lt;txp:link&#95;author /&gt;, &lt;txp:image&#95;author /&gt;, &lt;txp:file&#95;download&#95;author /&gt;.
* Changed: Verbose semantic admin-side markup.
* Changed: Explicit “Create new $thing” button for pages and styles.
* Changed: &lt;txp:image /&gt; and &lt;txp:article&#95;image /&gt; accept “width” and/or “height” attribute.
* Changed: &lt;txp:search&#95;input /&gt; accepts a “match” attribute. Possible values: “exact”, “any” or “all” (default).
* Changed: &lt;txp:css /&gt; accepts a “name” attribute. Attribute “n” is deprecated.
* Changed: &lt;txp:image&#95;index /&gt; accepts a “category” attribute. Attribute “c” is deprecated.
* Changed: &lt;txp:breadcrumb /&gt; accepts a “separator” attribute. Attribute “sep” is deprecated.
* Changed: &lt;txp:if&#95;plugin /&gt; accepts a “version” attribute. Attribute “ver” is deprecated.
* Changed: &lt;txp:if&#95;custom&#95;field /&gt; accepts a “value” attribute. Attribute “val” is deprecated. Added attributes “match” and “separator”
* Changed: &lt;txp:feed&#95;link /&gt;, &lt;txp:link&#95;feed&#95;link /&gt;, &lt;txp:popup /&gt;, &lt;txp:search&#95;input /&gt; accept a “class” attribute.
* Changed: Use percent-encoding in URLs as a RFC-1738-compliant fallback for languages lacking a suitable transliteration array.
* Changed: Silence E&#95;STRICT warnings in “live” production mode.
* Removed: “Friendly” CSS editor.
* Developer: pluggable&#95;ui() in the images tab.
* Developer: Style sheets are stored as plain text in the database - no more base64-encoding.
* Developer: Textpacks, a method to install i18n strings from uploaded text files and from plugins.
* Developer: article&#95;format&#95;info(), link&#95;format&#95;info(), and get&#95;groups() convenience functions.
* Developer: i18n strings are not loaded while Textpattern renders the public-side style sheet.
* Textile 2.2 adds support for note lists, definition lists, thead, tbody, tfoot, table summary, table caption, table colgroup, glyphs for fractions, degrees and plusminus et cetera.
* jQuery 1.4.3
* Incutio XML-RPC Library 1.7.4

