\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop This is intended as a common development area for tag descriptions for the zem&#95;event plugin. I have used the same format as the TXP tag reference. This reference is neither official nor complete, but is rather intended as a starting point for familiarization. Examples are simple and intended only as a guide to usage context. Current as of Version 0.30 Plugin zem&#95;event

h4(#page_or_column). Page or Column.

* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_list&gt;

h4(#article_form_page_column_available_for_individual_display). Article form (Page / Column available for individual display).

* &lt;"zem&#95;article&#95;event":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_article_event /&gt;

h4(#zem_event_list_form_or_container_tags). zem&#95;event&#95;list form or container tags.

* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_categories /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_date /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;description":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_description /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;email":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_email /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;finish&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_finish_date /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;finish&#95;time":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_finish_time /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;location":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_location /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;location&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_location_url /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_name /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_permlink /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_url /&gt;
* &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;time":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_time /&gt;

&lt;hr /&gt;

h5(#zem_event_display_form_default). zem&#95;event&#95;display form(default)

&lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_permlink wraptag=“” &gt;

  &lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_name label=“Event” wraptag=“” /&gt;

&lt;/"zem&#95;event&#95;permlink":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_permlink&gt;

&lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_date label=“Date” wraptag=“” /&gt;

&lt;"zem&#95;event&#95;time":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:zem_event_time label=“Time” wraptag=“” /&gt;

h5(#date_formats). Date formats

"date&#95;format&#95;details":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=date_format_details

