h1. Moving installation from subdirectory to domain root on the same server

For whatever reason, it is sometimes the case that you have Textpattern installed in a subdirectory of a web domain (i.e., @example.com/subdirectory@) and later decide you would like it to be located in the domain root (i.e., @example.com@). Moving a Textpattern installation from a subdirectory to the domain root is a relatively easy matter; you simply backup your resources (not required but encouraged), move the files, change paths in a few key places, and you should be good to go.

h2. The process

Following is the process in more detail:

# Login to your Textpattern administration pages, navigate to the [[Preferences page]], and change your 'Site URL' entry to reflect the new root install location (should simply be a matter of removing the subdirectory from the path). You will also need to update the file upload path in the [[Preferences page]]. Again, it should simply be a matter of removing the subdirectory.
# You need to change your referencing paths to the database in the @config.php@ file. Navigate to @/textpattern/config.php@, open the file and change your paths so they now reflect a link to the database with respect from the domain root instead of the former subdirectory (i.e., simply remove the subdirectory from the paths).
# Transfer your Textpattern folder/file structure to the domain root level (this is not the time to be suddenly changing your site's structure - leave the folder and file structure exactly as it is). Don't forget the @.htaccess@ file!
# If you have any 'internal' hard-coded links (e.g., image path links) in any of your page templates that are set as absolute paths, you will need to go to any such pages and change those links. You will not have to worry about this if your internal links are hard-coded as relative links and your site structure does not change, nor will you need to change absolute links that go to external content (i.e., different web sites).

If all goes well, you should then be able to access your Textpattern home page, or the site admin page, via the new domain root location with everything in working order.

This process is also valid for moving installations in the other direction (from root to a subdirectory), or when working on a local installation via XAMPP, MAMP, etc.
