\n*This article applies to Mac OS X only.* Users of older versions of Mac OS will not be able to access the Subversion repository using these instructions.

Mac OS X offers several ways to connect to a Subversion repository, ranging from Cocoa applications to the use of Apple's Terminal command line application. Working with a code repository requires some attention and care, so choose the approach that best suits your technical ability. While command line operations are the most direct and powerful, they also require the most knowledge/skill.

h3(sectionedit1#graphical_user_interface_svn_client_approach). Graphical User Interface (SVN Client Approach)

Get either "SvnX":http://www.lachoseinteractive.net/en/community/subversion/svnx/features/, "scplugin":http://scplugin.tigris.org/, or "iSVN":http://www.einhugur.com/iSvn/index.html. Download one of them and use.

h3(sectionedit2#graphical_user_interface_snapshot_approach). Graphical User Interface (Snapshot Approach)

This method will download the most recent version of Textpattern. This is the “snapshot approach,” meaning the files downloaded will not be linked to the SVN repository. Future upgrades will have to be done manually.

<ol>
<li>Get "Transmit":http://panic.com/transmit/ _3 or higher_ (also works with any other WebDAV compatible client app)</li>
<li>Run Transmit</li>
<li>Set the following:
<ul>
<li><p>*Server:*</p>
bc. textpattern.googlecode.com


<p>&#42; *Initial Path:*</p>
bc. /svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source/


<p>&#42; *Protocol:* WebDAV</p></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>

# leave other fields blank and hit *connect*.
# The files you see are the most recent version of Textpattern (*Important:* you should see an _.htaccess_ file, if not make sure your preferences are set to show *hidden* or *invisible* files.)

h3(sectionedit3#command_line_approach). Command Line Approach

This approach requires permission to use

bc. /Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app


on your Macintosh (enabled by default) and shell access to your UNIX-based hosting provider. If you do not have access to both of these components, please speak with your system administrator or choose one of the alternate approaches listed above.

If you have Mac OS X or less, then you do not have SVN installed by default and need to install it. Install SVN from one of the following sources:

* "Darwin Ports":http://darwinports.opendarwin.org
* "Fink":http://fink.sourceforge.net/
* "Martin Ott's package":http://www.codingmonkeys.de/mbo/
* "Metissian Projects Package":http://metissian.com/projects/macosx/subversion/

Once SVN is installed, take the following steps to checkout Textpattern from the SVN repository.

<ul>
<li><p>Login to your hosting provider using Terminal.app (probably using</p>
bc. ssh

</li>
</ul>

If your site is hosted with Joyent, see "svn_install_on_joyent_accelerators":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=svn_install_on_joyent_accelerators.

<ul>
<li><p>Move into the directory where you want to install Textpattern, like so:</p>
bc. cd /my/textpattern/directory/

</li>
<li><p>Run the following command (*Note:* the space and period at the end are necessary!):</p>
bc. svn checkout <__yamdwe_nowiki>0</__yamdwe_nowiki>textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source .

</li>
</ul>

Alternatively, you may install Textpattern without moving into the desired directory first (i.e., combine steps 2 and 3 together), by running the command:

bc. svn checkout http://textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/releases/{{Txp current version}}/source /my/textpattern/directory/


h3(sectionedit4#future_updates). Future Updates

Once you have initially setup SVN, you simply need to do the following for all future updates.

<ol>
<li>bc. cd /my/textpattern/directory/

</li>
<li>bc. svn update

</li>
</ol>

