\nAdmin-side themes allow Textpattern administrators (and _publishers_) to choose a specific theme from the list of _core_ options via the Admin panel. The core admin theme options are:

* Classic
* Remora
* Hive

To change the theme, go to Admin &gt; "basic_preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences, scroll to the *Admin* section at bottom of panel and select the theme you want from the *Admin-side theme* control.

Administrators can also allow account holders to choose their own admin-side theme on an individual basis, which is done by installing the "smd_admin_themes":http://textpattern.org/plugins/1096/smd_admin_themes plugin.

Further, if a 260Ã -- 150px image of your theme is added into *your theme's directory* as either “screenshot.png”, “screenshot.jpg”, “screenshot.gif” or whatever, account holders can select the theme visually rather than via the admin control.

That's all great. But it gets even better by installing your own admin-side themes and making them available via the options noted above. You can choose to add an admin theme from from "Textpattern Themes":http://textgarden.org, or create one of your own.

From hereon we talk about *creating a new admin theme*.

h3(sectionedit1#creating_admin_themes). Creating admin themes

There are two ways to create themes: from scratch or by _inheriting_ much of the theme code from one of the existing core admin themes. Let's start with the basics of doing it by scratch.

h4(#creating_an_admin_from_scratch). Creating an admin from scratch

Your new theme will have a specific file structure and name, as well particular code patterns.

h5(#file_structure_and_name). File structure and name

Every theme will be created within its own folder, which will then be uploaded to

bc. ../textpattern/theme/


. Thus, a theme named

bc. foo_theme


will be stored as

bc. ../textpattern/theme/foo_theme/


.

Within your folder will be the required .php file, and any additional subdirectories and support files like style sheets and library files, as needed.

Your folder and the principle .php file inside it must have a common but unique name; common in that they will be the same, but unique in that they will not share the same name with any other admin theme used in that instance of Textpattern. *No name clashes allowed!*

For example:

bc. foo_theme
       â”œ foo_theme.php
       â”œ css
           â”” bar.css
       â”œ js
           â”” bar.js
       â”œ screenshot.jpg
       â”” README.txt


To avoid name clashes, and especially if you're going to "share your themes with the public":http://textgarden.org (whether freely or at cost), we recommend that you "reserve a name prefix":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=registered_textpattern_developer_prefixes that is thereafter (and for eternity) only used by you to prefix your themes (and plugins, should you create any). Your prefix must be three alphanumeric characters. Register your prefix by adding it to the list. *Do not edit or use anyone else's prefix!*

h5(#code_specifics). Code specifics

An admin theme will draw fractions of the admin-side user interface:

<ul>
<li><p>Entries in the HTML</p>
bc. <head>


<p>element:</p>
bc. html_head()

</li>
<li><p>Navigation menu and other header markup</p>
bc. header()

</li>
<li><p>Footer</p>
bc. footer()

</li>
</ul>

*IMPORTANT*: although it's possible to completely redesign (change the code of) the header and footer of the admin-side page, _don't do it_ or you risk breaking things.

For example, the DOM element having ID

bc. <nowiki>messagepane</nowiki>


is important for providing system feedback messages. If you removed it from your custom

bc. header()


function, code that relies on it would stop working, and users would not get such messages.

If you must rename elements as it is integral to your theme, consider leaving the existing items intact, adding your own and then setting the originals to

bc. display:none


via CSS.

Optionally, a theme may contain administrative data in its

bc. manifest()


method. Current items are indicated in Table 1.

*Table 1:* Data items currently available in the theme manifest.&#124; title&#124; a human-friendly name for your theme. Without this item, the theme name will be the same as the folder name &#124;

author

You :)

author_uri

URL to your home page

version

Some version information that increments as the theme is revized. No versioning convention is enforced. Note that the built-in themes use a programmatic way of displaying the version based on the

bc. $prefs


array. This keeps it in step with Textpattern but *it is not recommended to do this for your own themes*: you should use an actual numeric version number instead.

description

Brief reason why this theme exists, what it offers, or simply some marketing blurb about how great it is.

help

A hyperlink to some documentation about the theme.

For code examples, see the code in your files at:

<ul>
<li>bc. ../textpattern/lib/txplib_theme.php

</li>
<li>bc. ../textpattern/theme/classic/classic.php

</li>
</ul>

h5(#css_and_javascript). CSS and JavaScript

This is out of scope of Textpattern documentation, but if you need help with CSS and JavaScript, feel free to ask in the "Support Forum":http://forum.textpattern.com or "G+ Community":https://plus.google.com/u/0/communities/111366418300163664690.

h3(sectionedit3#extending_admin_themes_via_inheritance). Extending admin themes via inheritance

You can create new admin-side themes that extend from one of the core themes. This allows you to customize smaller amounts (by extension) while reusing (inheriting) most of the CSS, JavaScript, and so forth from one of the core theme packages.

For example, the *Remora* admin theme makes use of this technique by extending from the *Classic* theme.

Inheritance kicks off by including one line into the theme's .php file:

bc. theme::based_on('classic');


Note in this example it's extending from the *Classic* theme. But if you wanted to extend from the *Hive* theme, then just change

bc. 'classic'


with

bc. 'hive'


.

*Note:* If you install a theme that itself inherits from another theme, _they must both be installed for the theme to function_. Errors will likely result if the source theme is disabled or removed. To avoid such problems, always inherit from the core admin themes.

h4(#forum_notes_on_extending_admin_themes). Forum notes on extending admin themes

* "$":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=39423

