---
layout: document
category: tag-basics
published: true
title: "Self-closed versus container tags"
---

h1. Self-closed versus container tags

h2. Self-closed tags

A self-closed tag is the most basic form of a Texpattern tag. Its structure is similar to that of a self-closed tag in HTML (e.g., @<br />@), most notably the inclusion of the terminating forward slash.

Any self-closed Textpattern tag has the following syntactic structure:

bc. <txp:tagname />

The tag is replaced by contents when Textpattern displays a page.

Self-closed tags can usually take attributes. For example, the following "article":article tag demonstrates using the @form@ and @limit@ attributes:

bc. <txp:article form="formName" limit="15" />

Most Textpattern tags are self-closed tags. The other type of tag is the container tag.

h2. Container tags

Container tags are composed of both an opening and closing tag element, giving them the syntactic structure of:

bc. <txp:tag_name>
    ...content...
</txp:tag_name>

The content that is added between container tags may be either text or other Textpattern tags.

Typical container tags are the *permlink* tag @<txp:permlink></txp:permlink>@ and all *conditional tags*. Container tags are used when something has to be _enclosed_ by tags instead of being _replaced_ by them.

A link is a good example: you have a text string (or a title tag) around which you want to wrap an HTML anchor element:

bc. <txp:permlink>
    <txp:title />
</txp:permlink>
...content...
<txp:permlink>
    Read more...
</txp:permlink>

The example above would be rendered into something like so:

bc. <a href="/articles/this-article-title">This article title</a>
...content...
<a href="/articles/this-article-title">Read more...</a>
