\n"mininav_core_function_reference":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_core_function_reference

h3(sectionedit1#description). Description

array "safe_rows":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows ( string _$things_, string _$table_, string _$where_, boolean _$debug_ = “” _)_

Returns an array of rows (records) from the Textpattern database.

h3(sectionedit2#parameters). Parameters

*things*
 comma-separated list of columns to select *table*
 Textpattern table name, without any installation-specific prefix *where*
 MySQL

bc. WHERE


statement, without the

bc. WHERE


keyword *debug*
 If true, "dmp()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=dmp the query even when global debug mode is off

h3(sectionedit3#return_values). Return Values

Returns an indexed array of rows matching the conditions, or an empty array on failure.

h3(sectionedit4#changelog). Changelog

h3(sectionedit5#examples). Examples

bc. $rs = safe_rows('DISTINCT AuthorID', 'textpattern', 1);
foreach ($rs as $r)
    $out[] = $r['AuthorID'];
return $out;    // list of authors in the textpattern table


h3(sectionedit6#see_also). See Also

* "safe_row()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_row
* "safe_rows_start()":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=safe_rows_start

h3(sectionedit7#notes). Notes

The _$where_ parameter is required, so you must set it to a positive value such as

bc. TRUE


or

bc. 1


when you don't need an actual

bc. WHERE


clause.

