\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop

This page's content will be moved to Troubleshooting.

This index is meant for FAQ translations. Please help keep the index lists up to date as reflected in the main "FAQ":http://textpattern.com/faq/. However, note that some of the official FAQs are not appropriate for adding here in TextBook so we don't need to add everything; only information related to using Textpattern.

h3(sectionedit1#acquisition_and_installation_6). Acquisition and Installation (6)

* "What are the system requirements?":http://textpattern.com/faq/119/what-are-the-system-requirements
* "How do I fetch the current development version?":http://textpattern.com/faq/103/how-do-i-fetch-the-current-development-version
* "Where are the installation instructions?":http://textpattern.com/faq/93/where-are-the-installation-instructions
* "I've installed Textpattern. Now what?":http://textpattern.com/faq/78/ive-installed-textpattern-now-what
* "How do I log in?":http://textpattern.com/faq/71/how-do-i-log-in
* "Where can I download .htacccess?":http://textpattern.com/faq/50/where-can-i-download-htacccess

h3(sectionedit2#errors_warnings_and_notices_26). Errors, warnings and notices (26)

* "Problems with code in article bodies":http://textpattern.com/faq/151/problems-with-code-in-article-bodies
* "Occasional &quot;Database Unavailable&quot; errors":http://textpattern.com/faq/149/occasional-database-unavailable-errors
* "Individual article pages don't respond":http://textpattern.com/faq/146/individual-article-pages-dont-respond
* "Search result troubleshooting":http://textpattern.com/faq/145/search-result-troubleshooting
* "Error: publish.php cannot be called directly":http://textpattern.com/faq/126/error-publishphp-cannot-be-called-directly
* "Fatal error: Allowed memory size..":http://textpattern.com/faq/123/fatal-error-allowed-memory-size
* "Comment emails aren't received":http://textpattern.com/faq/115/comment-emails-arent-received
* "The install page shows a jumble of PHP code":http://textpattern.com/faq/113/the-install-page-shows-a-jumble-of-php-code
* "Article Images aren't working":http://textpattern.com/faq/109/article-images-arent-working
* "Tabs show up as tab&#95;content, tab&#95;presentation..":http://textpattern.com/faq/106/tabs-show-up-as-tab_content-tab_presentation
* "404 error unless I use index.php":http://textpattern.com/faq/104/404-error-unless-i-use-indexphp
* "Client does not support authentication protocol requested by server":http://textpattern.com/faq/96/client-does-not-support-authentication-protocol-requested-by-server
* "412 Precondition Failed":http://textpattern.com/faq/89/412-precondition-failed
* "Images are broken on certain pages":http://textpattern.com/faq/77/images-are-broken-on-certain-pages
* "Blank page after editing a page template":http://textpattern.com/faq/74/blank-page-after-editing-a-page-template
* "Parse error: unexpected..":http://textpattern.com/faq/73/parse-error-unexpected-
* "Warning: Missing argument 2 for..":http://textpattern.com/faq/72/warning-missing-argument-2-for
* "Textpattern crashes Apache under WAMP":http://textpattern.com/faq/68/textpattern-crashes-apache-under-wamp
* "404 error when linking to article pages":http://textpattern.com/faq/66/404-error-when-linking-to-article-pages
* "500 Internal Server Error":http://textpattern.com/faq/52/500-internal-server-error
* "Notice: undefined variable..":http://textpattern.com/faq/44/notice-undefined-variable
* "Fatal error: xml&#95;parser&#95;create":http://textpattern.com/faq/42/fatal-error-xml_parser_create
* "Notice: Constant txpinterface already defined..":http://textpattern.com/faq/41/notice-constant-txpinterface-already-defined
* "Fatal error: Call to undefined function..":http://textpattern.com/faq/38/fatal-error-call-to-undefined-function
* "Warning: failed to open stream..":http://textpattern.com/faq/37/warning-failed-to-open-stream
* "Warning: Unable to save result set..":http://textpattern.com/faq/36/warning-unable-to-save-result-set

h3(sectionedit3#features_and_limitations_17). Features and limitations (17)

* "Does Textpattern support Trackback?":http://textpattern.com/faq/143/does-textpattern-support-trackback
* "What languages does Textpattern support?":http://textpattern.com/faq/139/what-languages-does-textpattern-support
* "Can I make an image gallery?":http://textpattern.com/faq/138/can-i-make-an-image-gallery
* "Can I mix blog, static, and gallery pages?":http://textpattern.com/faq/137/can-i-mix-blog-static-and-gallery-pages
* "Can Textpattern share a database?":http://textpattern.com/faq/132/can-textpattern-share-a-database
* "Is there an article size limit?":http://textpattern.com/faq/130/is-there-an-article-size-limit
* "Does Textpattern support multiple weblogs?":http://textpattern.com/faq/121/does-textpattern-support-multiple-weblogs
* "Is Textpattern search engine friendly?":http://textpattern.com/faq/120/is-textpattern-search-engine-friendly
* "Can Textpattern import entries from..":http://textpattern.com/faq/114/can-textpattern-import-entries
* "How are sections and categories different?":http://textpattern.com/faq/112/how-are-sections-and-categories-different
* "How do I use custom fields?":http://textpattern.com/faq/111/how-do-i-use-custom-fields
* "Can I use Textpattern for a photoblog?":http://textpattern.com/faq/110/can-i-use-textpattern-for-a-photoblog
* "How do I back up Textpattern?":http://textpattern.com/faq/107/how-do-i-back-up-textpattern
* "Stop feeds updating on comments?":http://textpattern.com/faq/102/stop-feeds-updating-on-comments
* "When will the next version be released?":http://textpattern.com/faq/90/when-will-the-next-version-be-released
* "How fast is Textpattern?":http://textpattern.com/faq/80/how-fast-is-textpattern
* "How many articles can Textpattern handle?":http://textpattern.com/faq/79/how-many-articles-can-textpattern-handle

h3(sectionedit4#localization_2). Localization (2)

* Non-ASCII characters are missing or incorrect
* How do I display time and date formats in my local language?

h3(sectionedit5#miscellaneous_3). Miscellaneous (3)

* Diagnosing performance problems
* Help, I forgot my password!
* Why RSS 0.92?

h3(sectionedit6#presentation_and_templates_20). Presentation and templates (20)

* How do I show a list of related articles?
* How do I make an archive page?
* Page output is unstyled
* How do I search in the current section only
* Where can I get the default templates?
* Comment display confusion
* What does article&#95;custom do?
* How do I keep a post at the top of the page?
* How do I change the article markup?
* How do I skip the comment preview?
* How do I change the number of articles displayed?
* How do I embed Textpattern in another page?
* Which articles go on the front page?
* How do I reuse chunks of HTML?
* How do I manage static pages?
* How do I show only an excerpt in article lists?
* How do I use a different page layout for individual articles and article lists?
* How do I use a different page layout for each section?
* How do I select which form is used to display articles?
* How do I change the grey line separating articles?

h3(sectionedit7#releases402_3). Releases: 4.0.2 (3)

* How can I tell if I've upgraded correctly?
* How do I turn off register&#95;globals?
* if&#95;comments, comments&#95;invite changes

h3(sectionedit8#template_tags_12). Template Tags (12)

* if&#95;category vs. if&#95;article&#95;category
* Is there a tag or attribute for..
* How do I change the appearance of..
* How do I create navigation links?
* Problems with nested txp:if&#95;.. tags
* Can I use PHP code in article bodies?
* How do I use PHP code?
* Can I use txp tags in articles?
* How do I use a custom date format?
* My dates look like 'Y m d'!
* Why aren't the right articles showing up on my page?
* How do I change the output of txp:recent&#95;articles?

