\n &#42;

bc(code). <txp:output_form />


now parses the content of forms properly

<ul>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:section />


<p>tag, which should output the current article's section</p></li>
<li><p>Added</p>
bc(code). <txp:section_list />


<p>tag, which will output an href list of site sections</p></li>
<li>Added an option in admin_config to toggle changing the site's 'last updated' stamp whenever a new comment is added</li>
<li>Added an option to list the count of articles using each article category in the Organise tab</li>
<li>Added an option to toggle showing an article's current comment count in XML feed titles</li>
<li><p>Added simple image gallery implementation, using</p>
bc(code). <txp:image_index />


<p>and</p>
bc(code). <txp:image_display />

</li>
<li><p>Added Txp's first conditional tag</p>
bc(code). <txp:if_comments>


<p>. When used on an article form, everyting inside this tag will only appear if commenting for the article is open, or was open in the past.</p></li>
<li>Category popups in the write tab now list alphabetically</li>
<li>Changed wording and positioning in the Organise tab to improve clarity</li>
<li>Fixed (for real this time) erroneous slash inserted in 'show site' href</li>
<li>Fixed an urlencode problem that prevented browsing categories whose names contained an ampersand</li>
<li>Fixed form misnomer which prevented image categories from being changed</li>
<li>Fixed linebreak issue that was preventing the Mail Comments feature from working on some servers</li>
<li><p>Fixed some</p>
bc(code). wraptag


<p>logic to prevent empty tags from being generated (thanks John Serris)</p></li>
<li>Only one section at a time can now be 'selected by default' when composing a new article</li>
<li>Removed an erroneous 'malformed tag' message that showed up when using password_protect</li>
<li>Textile was incorrectly handling article titles at Publish and Save - this is now fixed</li>
</ul>

