\n

h4(#classification). Classification

The

bc(code). zem_event_list


tag can be used as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag or a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag. It will take a form attribute as a "Single_Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#single_tag as well as other attributes. When used as a "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag the contained statements are executed recursively as the "Container Tag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#container_tag's form.

h4(#syntax). Syntax

The _zem_event_list_ tag has the following syntactic structure...

bc(code). <txp:zem_event_list /> or <txp:zem_event_list>... contained content ...</txp:zem_event_list>


h4(#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (note: attributes are *case sensitive*):

*&lt;code&gt;*label=“*_label text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Label for the top of the list. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*labeltag=“*_labeltag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Independent wraptag for label for the top of the list. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*limit=“*_integer_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Maximum number of listed events. Default is

bc(code). empty


. *&lt;code&gt;*break=“*_tag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*breakclass=“*_class text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML class to be used for line breaks, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*wraptag=“*_wraptag text_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 HTML tag to be used as the wraptag, without brackets. Default is empty. *&lt;code&gt;*category=“*_category name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Selected from available categories. (Default is the currently searched for category) *&lt;code&gt;*all_categories=“*_0 or 1_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 (Default is the current value of all_categories) *&lt;code&gt;*location=“*_location name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Selected from available locations. (Default is the currently selected location) *&lt;code&gt;*all_locations=“*_0 or 1_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 (Default is the current value of all_locations) *&lt;code&gt;*form=“*_Form Name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Form to be used when single tag is used, wraptag usage will disregard this attribute.Default is

bc(code). **zem_event_display**


. *&lt;code&gt;*date_from=“*_Event start date_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc(code). **currently set start date or current day**


. *&lt;code&gt;*date_to=“*_Event end date_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc(code). **currently set end date or empty**


. *&lt;code&gt;*date=*_selected date_&lt;/code&gt;*
 Default is

bc(code). **none**


. *&lt;code&gt;*sort=“*_sort option_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 (see below for details)Default is

bc(code). **zem_event_date.event_date asc, zem_event_date.event_time asc**


*&lt;code&gt;*class=“*_class name_*“*&lt;/code&gt;*
 CSS class attribute, default is

bc(code). **zem_event_list**


.

h5(#attribute_semantics). Attribute Semantics

<ul>
<li><p>*label*: This string will be prepended to the link list. When using semantic markup (</p>
bc(code). "wraptag"


<p>being either</p>
bc(code). "ol"


<p>or</p>
bc(code). "ul"


<p>),</p>
bc(code). "label"


<p>will be the *first* list item.</p></li>
<li><p>*break*: This string will be used to separate list items. Suggested values include</p>
bc(code). "br"


<p>and</p>
bc(code). "hr"


<p>for presentational markup, or</p>
bc(code). "li"


<p>if you preferred semantic markup. Textpattern cares for the correct nesting of tags in either case. NB: Choosing</p>
bc(code). li


<p>as the break string requires *wraptag* to be either</p>
bc(code). ul


<p>or</p>
bc(code). ol


<p>and vice versa.</p></li>
<li><p>*wraptag*: This string will be used to enclose the whole list. Suggested values include</p>
bc(code). "p"


<p>for presentational markup,</p>
bc(code). "ol"


<p>or</p>
bc(code). "ul"


<p>for semantic markup. NB: Appending additional HTML attributes like</p>
bc(code). class


<p>,</p>
bc(code). style


<p>or</p>
bc(code). start


<p>is not supported.</p></li>
<li><p>*sort*: This attribute's value will be used as a SQL</p>
bc(code). order by


<p>clause and can thus contain every table row of the textpattern database table followed by SQL sort order indications</p>
bc(code). asc


<p>and</p>
bc(code). desc


<p>respectively.</p></li>
</ul>

h4(#examples). Examples

h5(#example_1single_tag_usage). Example 1: Single tag usage

bc(code). <txp:zem_event_list label="Current Events" form="zem_events_modified" />


h5(#example_2container_tag_usage). Example 2: Container tag usage

bc(code). <txp:zem_event_list wraptag="ul" break="li">
<txp:zem_event_categories wraptag="p"  />
<txp:zem_event_name wraptag="p" />
<txp:zem_event_time wraptag="p" />
</txp:zem_event_list>


