---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Author"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Article tags
---

h1. Author

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:author />

The *author* tag is a _single_ tag that is used to return the name of the author of the currently displayed article.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @escape="html"@
Escape HTML entities such as @<@, @>@ and @&@.
Values: @html@ or unset.
Default: @html@;
* @format="boolean"@
Display plain URL or full link.
Values: @link@, @url@ or unset.
Default: unset (display title or full link, depending on @link@).
* @link="boolean"@
Make text a link to the author's posts.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @section="section name"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
* @this_section="boolean"@
If set to @1@, the linked author name will direct users to an author list in the current section, otherwise author list from all sections is displayed.
Values: @0@ (no, all sections) or @1@ (yes, this section only).
Default: @0@.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to display the author's real name or login name.
Values: @0@ (login name) or @1@ (real name).
Default: @1@.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Link to list of author's articles

bc. <h1>
    <txp:title />
</h1>
<txp:body />
<p class="author-date">
    Posted By: <txp:author link="1" /> at <txp:posted />
</p>

The author's name in this article form is a hyperlink to a list of articles by this author.

Other tags used: "posted":posted, "title":title, "body":body.

h3. Example 2: Author landing page

bc. <txp:if_author>
    <h1>
        Articles by author: <txp:author />
    </h1>
    <txp:article form="article_listing" limit="5" />
</txp:if_author>

Display the author's name above a list of articles by that author when visiting @example.com/author/Author+Name@ URLs.

Other tags used: "if_author":if-author, "article":article.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@escape@ and @format@ attributes added.

h3. Version 4.5.0

Permitted the tag to be used on author list landing pages.

h3. Version 4.3.0

@title@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@section@ and @this_section@ attributes added.
