---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Authors"
tags:
  - Article tags
  - List tags
---

h1. Authors

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:authors>

The *authors* tag is a _single_ or _container_ tag that Textpattern will use to gather a list of authors designated within the Textpattern [[Users page]].

If used as a _container_ tag, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc. <txp:authors>
    ...contained statements...
</txp:authors>

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @form="form name"@
Use specified form template to process each author.
Default: unset.
* @group="user group"@
Comma-separated list of user groups (publishing roles that the authors belong to.
Values: @publisher@, @managing_editor@, @copy_editor@, @staff_writer@, @freelancer@, @designer@ or @privs_none@.
Default: unset, retrieves from all groups.
* @limit="integer"@
The number of authors to display.
Default: @0@ (no limit).
* @name="author"@
Comma-separated list of author names.
Default: unset, which determines whether 'any' author listing is being viewed.
* @offset="integer"@
The number of authors to skip.
Default: @0@.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort resulting list.
Values:
@id@ (author id#).
@last_access@ (most recent log in).
@name@ (login name).
@realname@ (real name)
@privs@ (user group).
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
Each field in the @textpattern@ database table can be used as a sort key.
Default: @name asc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: List all authors

bc. <txp:authors />

h3. Example 2: List authors only from certain groups, with link and email

bc. <txp:authors group="publisher, managing_editor" wraptag="ul" break="li">
    <txp:author link="1" />
    (<txp:author_email />)
</txp:authors>

Other tags used: "author":author, "author_email":author-email.

h3. Example 3: Render a drop-down list of authors

bc. <select name="author">
    <txp:authors sort="realname asc">
        <option value="<txp:author />"><txp:author /></option>
    </txp:authors>
</select>

Other tags used: "author":author.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

Tag support added.
