---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Category1"
tags:
  - Article tags
  - Navigation tags
---

h1. Category1

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:category1 />

The *category1* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag. It will display information of the category as defined by *Category 1* of the article being displayed. When used as a containing tag, it will turn the contents into a link to that category. Otherwise, it will return plain text.

This tag may be used within either an article form, or in a page, wrapped in an "if_individual_article":if-individual-article conditional tag.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="boolean"@
Whether to link to articles from the same category. Works only in the _single_ tag.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @section="section name"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to output category title, rather than name.
Values: @0@ (no, use name) or @1@ (yes, use title).
Default: @0@.
* @this_section="boolean"@
Whether to only link to articles from the section containing the current article.
Values: @0@ (no, allow from any section) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class attribute@ to be applied to @wraptag@.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around output, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Category name in plain text

bc. <p>
    <txp:category1 />
</p>

h3. Example 2: Hyperlinked category title

bc. <p>
    <txp:category1 link="1" title="1" />
</p>

If *category1* is 'General stuff', this tag will display the words 'General stuff' as a hyperlink to a list of articles in the same category.

h3. Example 3: Container example

bc. <p>
    <txp:category1>Other articles in category:
    <txp:category1 title="1" /></txp:category1>
</p>

h3. Example 4: Category 1 and 2

bc. <p>
    Filed in: <txp:category1 link="1" title="1" />
    <txp:if_article_category number="2">
        and <txp:category2 link="1" title="1" />
    </txp:if_article_category>
</p>

Shows a hyperlinked category 1, and also hyperlinked category 2 but only if it is used.

Other tags used: "category2":category1, "if_article_category":if-article-category.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.4

@class@, @section@, @this_section@ and @wraptag@ attributes added.
