---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Category list"
tags:
  - List tags
  - Navigation tags
  - Structural tags
---

h1. Category list

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:category_list />

The *category_list* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of linked categories.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @active_class="class name"@
HTML @class@ attribute to be applied to the @active@ or current link in a list. Only works in the _single_ tag without the @form@ attribute.
Default: unset.
* @categories="category name(s)"@
Comma-separated list of categories to include, displayed in the order specified (unless overridden by @sort@ attribute). Use category names *not* titles here - note that Textpattern automatically converts the names to lowercase and converts spaces to hyphens when they are created.
Default: unset (all categories).
* @children="boolean"@
Can limit the list depth to one level below the parent category.
Values: @0@ (no children, i.e. only show one level below the parent) or @1@ (show all nested categories).
Default: @1@.
* @exclude="category name(s)"@
List of category names which will be excluded from the list. @categories@ takes precendence over @exclude@.
Default: unset.
* @form="form name"@
Use specified form to process each included category.
Default: unset.
* @html_id="id"@
The HTML @id@ attribute applied to the @wraptag@, if set.
Default: unset.
* @parent="category name"@
Return only specified category and its children categories.
* @section="section name"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort the resulting list.
Values:
@id@.
@name@.
@parent@.
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@title@.
@type@.
Default: @name asc@.
* @this_section="boolean"@
Link to currently active section (overrides @section@ attribute).
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @type="category type"@
Values: @article@, @image@, @link@, @file@.
Default: @article@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Labelled category list

bc. <txp:category_list label="Categories" wraptag="p" break="br" />

h3. Example 2: As an unordered list

bc. <txp:category_list break="li" wraptag="ul" />

h3. Example 3: Set active class using the container tag

bc. <txp:category_list wraptag="ul" break="">
    <li<txp:if_category name="<txp:category />"> class="active"</txp:if_category>>
        <txp:category title="1" link="1" />
    </li>
</txp:category_list>

This code will add @class="active"@ to the @<li>@ element around the current viewed category in the list, allowing your to style it with CSS as desired.

Other tags used: "category":category, "if_category":if-category.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@html_id@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.7

Can be used as a container tag.
@form@ and @children@ attributes added.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@active_class@, @categories@, @exclude@, @section@ and @this_section@ attributes added.
