---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Category"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Navigation tags
  - Structural tags
---

h1. Category

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:category />

The *category* tag can be used as either a _single_ or _containing_ tag. It will display information of the category as defined by the @name@ attribute, or the one currently being viewed. When used as a containing tag, it will turn the contents into a link to the category. Otherwise, it will return plain text.

May be used in any context.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="boolean"@
Whether to display as link. Works only in the _single_ tag, *not* in the _containing_ tag variant.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @name="category name"@
Display specific category. Note the category name is specified in lowercase regardless of how you typed its title in the [[Categories page]]. Also note that if you had called your category @My Category Name@ it becomes @my-category-name@ when used in tags.
Default: unset (use current category).
* @section="section name"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: current section (for backwards compatibility).
* @this_section="boolean"@
If set to @1@, the linked category name will direct users to an category list in the current section, otherwise category list from all sections is displayed.
Only link to articles from the current section. The @section@ attribute overrides this setting.
Values: @0@ (no, all sections) or @1@ (yes, this section only).
Default: @0@.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to display category's title instead of its name.
Values: @0@ (no, display name) or @1@ (yes, display title).
Default: @0@.
* @type="category type"@
Values: @article@, @image@, @link@ or @file@.
Default: @article@.
* @url="boolean"@
Display plain URL or full link.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@ (display title or full link, depending on @link@).

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ attribute, applied to @wraptag@. If no @wraptag@ is supplied (and @link="1"@), the @class@ is applied to the @<a>@ tag instead.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around output, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Display the current category name

bc. <txp:category />

h3. Example 2: Display hyperlinked category title

bc. <txp:category title="1" link="1" />

h3. Example 3: Display a specific category's title, hyperlinked

bc. <txp:category name="article" title="1" link="1" wraptag="p" />

h3. Example 4: Container example

bc. <txp:category name="book">My books</txp:category>

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Applies @class@; attribute to the @<a>@ tag when the @wraptag@ attribute is empty.
@url@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@this_section@ attribute added.
