---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Comment submit"
tags:
  - Comment tags
---

h1. Comment submit

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:comment_submit />

The *comment_submit* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a 'Submit' button. Clicking the submit button writes the comment information to the database. Used in the comment input form template.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @label="text"@
Label that appears on the 'Submit' button.
Default: @Submit@ (localized).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Comment form

bc. <p>
    Name (required)<br>
    <txp:comment_name_input />
</p>
<p>
    Email (required)<br>
    <txp:comment_email_input />
</p>
<p>
    Website<br>
    <txp:comment_web_input />
</p>
<p>
    <txp:comment_remember />
</p>
<p>
    Message (required)<br>
    <txp:comment_message_input /><br>
    <txp:comments_help />
</p>
<p>
    <txp:comment_preview />
    <txp:comment_submit />
</p>

Other tags used: "comment_email_input":comment-email-input, "comments_help":comments-help, "comment_message_input":comment-message-input, "comment_name_input":comment-name-input, "comment_preview":comment-preview, "comment_remember":comment-remember, "comment_web_input":comment-web-input.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@label@ attribute added (replaces functionality of deprecated @submitlabel@ attribute in "comments_form":comments-form tag).
