---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Comments"
tags:
  - Comment tags
---

h1. Comments

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:comments />

The *comments* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display the comments associated with a particular article. Comments will be displayed for the present individual article as a default, or to the article set by the @id@ attribute.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @form="form name"@
Use specified form template to process each comment.
Default: @comments@.
* @limit="integer"@
The number of comments to display.
Default: @0@ (no limit).
* @offset="integer"@
The number of comments to skip.
Default: @0@.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort the resulting list.
Values:
@discussid@ (comment ID).
@email@.
@ip@ ("IP address":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address).
@message@.
@name@.
@parentid@ (article ID).
@posted@.
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@web@.
Default: @posted asc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g. @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @li@ or @div@, depends upon "Preferences administration panel":../administration/preferences-panel setting for 'Present comments as a numbered list?'.
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: @comments@ (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: @ol@ or unset, depends upon "Preferences administration panel":../administration/preferences-panel setting for 'Present comments as a numbered list?'.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display comments and give an indication of comments status

bc. <txp:comments />
<txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments_form />
<txp:else />
    <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

Comments for articles can be turned on or off at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the scheme above in an 'article' type form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while still giving users indication of comment status.

Other tags used: "comments_form":comments-form, "else":else, "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.

h3. Example 2: Conditional comments

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments form="comments" break="li" wraptag="ul" />
    <txp:comments_form />
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

And the @comments@ form (which is a 'comment' type form):

bc. <txp:comment_message />
<p class="footnote">
    <a href="mailto:<txp:comment_email />">Email</a> |
    <txp:comment_permlink>
        <txp:comment_id />
    </txp:comment_permlink>
</p>

For the article, list id numbers and a comment input form; but only if comments are currently allowed.

Other tags used: "comment_email":comment-email, "comments_form":comments-form, "comment_id":comment-id, "comment_permlink":comment-permlink, "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@breakclass@ attribute deprecated.
