---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Comments invite"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Comment tags
---

h1. Comments invite

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:comments_invite />

The *comments_invite* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a link to an article comment form. Text used for the link will be taken from the invitation field on the Textpattern [[Write page]].

This tag can be used in both a Textpattern [[Page template]] and a [[Form template]].

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @showalways="boolean"@
Whether to display invite on individual article page.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @showcount="boolean"@
Whether to display comment count.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @1@.
* @textonly="boolean"@
Whether to display invite as text, rather than a hyperlink.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: @comments_invite@ (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around invite text, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display comments invitation and comment count

bc. <txp:if_comments>
    <txp:comments_invite wraptag="p" />
</txp:if_comments>

This will display the comments invitation and a comment count (but only if there are any comments associated with the current article).

Other tags used: "if_comments":if-comments.
