---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Comments preview"
tags:
  - Comment tags
---

h1. Comments preview

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:comments_preview />

The *comments_preview* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a preview of a visitor's comment.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @form="form name"@
Use specified form template to process each comment.
Default: @comments@.
* @label="text"@
Label that appears on the 'Preview' button.
Default: @Preview@ (localised).

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: @comments_preview@ (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around the list, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="div"@).
Default: depends upon 'Present Comments as a Numbered List?' preference setting - either @ol@ or unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@label@ attribute added (replaces functionality of deprecated @previewlabel@ attribute in "comments_form":comments-form tag).

h3. Version 4.0.4

Use is necessary in comments display form (@<comments_display />@, by default).

h3. Version 4.0.3

Tag support added.
