---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Comments form"
tags:
  - Comment tags
---

h1. Comments form

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:comments_form />

The *comments_form* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to display a comment form. Comments will be attached to present individual article as a default, or to the article set by the @id@ attribute.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @form="form name"@
Use specified form template.
Default: @comment_form@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="CSS class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: @comments_form@ (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around output, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Give visitors indication of 'Comments' status

Comments for articles can be turned on or off at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while still giving users indication of comment status:

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments_form />
<txp:else />
    <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

Other tags used: "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed, "else":.

h3. Example 2: Display conditional comments and form

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments form="lineitem" break="li" wraptag="ul" />
    <txp:comments_form />
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

And then an example of what the form @lineitem@ could contain:

bc. <txp:comment_id />

For the current article, returns a list of id numbers for comments and a comment input form (but only if comments are currently allowed).

Other tags used: "comment_id":comment-id, "comments":comments, "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@msgstyle@ attribute deprecated.
@forgetlabel@, @isize@, @msgcols@, @msgrows@, @msgstyle@, @previewlabel@, @rememberlabel@ and @submitlabel@ attributes deprecated and functionality moved to individual @comment_*@ input tags.

h3. Version 4.5.0

Added @forgetlabel@, @previewlabel@, @rememberlabel@ and @submitlabel@ attributes.

h3. Version 4.0.4

@show_preview@ attribute removed.
