---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "If article id"
tags:
  - Article tags
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If article id

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:if_article_id>

The *if_article_id* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_article_id>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_article_id>

The tag will execute the contained statement if the article id associated with a particular article matches the id attribute. Should be used in an article form/container. The @id@ attribute *must* be used in an *article list context* (when producing a page that displays more than one article) or the tag will do nothing.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @id="integer"@
Comma delimited integer article ID list.
Default: current article's ID if available (i.e.,on a page that displays a single article).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display info if the article id matches

bc. <txp:if_article_id id="33">
    <p>
        <txp:title />
    </p>
</txp:if_article_id>

Displays the article title if the id of the current article is 33.

Other tags used: "title":title.

h3. Example 2: Display a list of articles omitting current article

bc. <txp:article_custom label="related" labeltag="h4" section="<txp:section />" wraptag="ul">
    <txp:if_article_id>
    <txp:else />
        <li>
            <txp:permlink>
                <txp:title />
            </txp:permlink>
        </li>
    </txp:if_article_id>
</txp:article_custom>

Displays an unordered linked list of articles from the same section omitting the article currently viewed.

Other tags used: "article_custom":article_custom, "section":section, "else":else, "permlink":permlink, "title":title.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Defaults to the current article's ID.
