---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "If author"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Article tags
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If author

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:if_author>

The *if_author* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_author>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_author>

The tag will execute the contained statement *if* the called page is the result of an article search by a specific author's name.

p(alert-block information). This is *not* the same as checking if the current article was written (posted) by the given author. Use "if_article_author":if-article-author.textile for that situation.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @name="author"@
Comma-separated list of author names.
Default: unset, which determines whether 'any' author listing is being viewed.
* @type="context"@
Textpattern context to check against. You can choose from the following contexts (set to empty to include all contexts):
@article@ is this an article author list?
@image@ is this an image author list?
@file@ is this a file author list?
@link@ is this a link author list?
Default: @article@.

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Select a stylesheet based on author

Selects a stylesheet named @author_list@ when a list by author @admi@ is being displayed, or a stylesheet determined by the active section for normal page display.

bc. <txp:if_author name="admin">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="<txp:css name="author_list" />" media="screen">
<txp:else />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="<txp:css />" media="screen">
</txp:if_author>

Other tags used: "else":else.textile, "css":css.textile.

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@type@ attribute added.
