---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "If disallowed"
tags:
  - Comment tags
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If comments disallowed

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:if_comments_disallowed>

The *if_comments_disallowed* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_comments_disallowed>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>

The tag will execute the contained statements if comments are disallowed for a given article.

The *if_comments_disallowed* tag can be used in pages, and in article and comment forms. When used in a page template, it will test the article identified by the attribute for status and act, or not, according to that status. It will not pass the @id@ attribute to the contained statement, such as "comments":comments or "comments_form":comments-form; they must be added as attributes to the contained tag.

Although you can use an @id@ attribute in a comment form, the default behaviour (no attribute) will ensure consistency in comment/article matching when viewing an individual article.

This tag is mainly used in combination with "if_comments_allowed":if-comments-allowed.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Give an indication of comments status

bc.. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments_form />
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

<txp:if_comments_disallowed>
    <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>

p. Comments for articles can be turned off or on at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while also giving an indication of the comment status.

Other tags used: "comments_form":comments-form, "if_comments_disallowed":if-comments-disallowed.

h3. Example 2: List of comment links

bc. <txp:if_comments_disallowed>
    <txp:comments form="lineitem" break="li" wraptag="ul" />
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>

And the form 'lineitem' (type: comment):

bc. <txp:comment_permlink>
    <txp:comment_id />
</txp:comment_permlink>

Displays a list of links to comments for the current article, using the comment @id@ as text, but only if comments are currently *not allowed*.

Other tags used: "comments":comments, "comment_permlink":comment-permlink, "comment_id":comment-id.
