---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "If category"
tags:
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If category

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:if_category>

The *if_category* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_category>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_category>

The tag will execute the contained statements if the @name@ attribute matches a category search value, or the list is an article list by category.

Should be used in a page template; if checking the category in an article form, use "if_article_category":if-article-category.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @name="category"@
Comma-separated list of category names. Note the category name is specified in lower case regardless of how you typed its title in the Category tab. Also note that if you had called your category 'My Category Name' it becomes 'my-category-name' when used in tags.
Default: unset, which determines whether ''any'' category listing is being viewed.
* @type="context"@
Textpattern context to check against. You can choose from the following contexts (set to empty to include all contexts):
@article@ is this an article category list?
@image@ is this an image category list?
@file@ is this a file category list?
@link@ is this a link category list?
Default: @article@.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display info depending on list category

bc. <txp:if_category name="prose">
    <p><txp:author /></p>
</txp:if_category>

Displays the author's name if the article list is of category @prose@.

Other tags used: "author":author.

h3. Example 2: Use tag with else

bc. <txp:if_category name="prose">
    <p><txp:category /></p>
<txp:else />
    <h3><txp:site_name /></h3>
</txp:if_category>

Displays the category name if the article list is of category @prose@, otherwise show the site's name.

Other tags used: "category":category, "else":else, "site_name":site-name.

h3. Example 3: Display an appropriate heading

bc. <;txp:if_category>
   <h3>Articles in category <txp:category title="1" /></h3>
<txp:else />
   <h3>All articles</h3>
</txp:if_category>

Displays an appropriate heading for both category and non-category pages.

Other tags used: "category":category, "else":else.

h3. Example 4: Display a category/article list

Given the defined article categories: @prose@, @poetry@, and @opinions@.

bc.. <txp:category_list label="Category Navigation" wraptag="p" />

<txp:if_category name="prose">
    <txp:recent_articles limit="25" break="li" wraptag="ol" label="Prose" category="prose" />
</txp:if_category>

<txp:if_category name="poetry">
    <txp:recent_articles limit="25" break="li" wraptag="ol" label="Poetry" category="poetry" />
</txp:if_category>

<txp:if_category name="opinions">
    <txp:recent_articles limit="25" break="li" wraptag="ol" label="Opinions" category="opinions" />
</txp:if_category>

p. Shows a category list and, underneath it, a list of related articles in the currently selected category. Changing the category using the list changes the related articles underneath.

Other tags used: "category_list":category-list, "recent_articles":recent-articles.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@type@ attribute added.
