---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "If comments allowed"
tags:
  - Comment tags
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If comments allowed

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>

The *if_comments_allowed* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

The tag will execute the contained statements if comments are allowed for a given article.

This tag can be used in pages, or in article or comment forms; though it will allow you to use an @id@ attribute in a comment form, the default behavior (no attribute) will ensure consistency in comment/article matching when viewing an individual article.

When used in a page template, it will test the article identified by the attribute for status and act, or not, according to that status. It will not pass the @id@ attribute to the contained statement, such as "comments":comments or "comments_form":comments-form, they must be added as attributes to the contained tag.

This tag is mainly used in combination with "if_comments_disallowed":if-comments-disallowed.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Give an indication of comments status

bc.. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments_form />
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

<txp:if_comments_disallowed>
    <p>Comments are turned off for this article.</p>
</txp:if_comments_disallowed>

p. Comments for articles can be turned off or on at the author's discretion for any article that is published; by using the following scheme in an article form, you can still have the on/off control over comments while also giving an indication of the comment status.

Other tags used: "comments_form":comments-form, "if_comments_disallowed":if-comments-disallowed.

h3. Example 2: Display a list of IDs

bc. <txp:if_comments_allowed>
    <txp:comments form="lineitem" break="li" wraptag="ul" />
<txp:else />
    <p>Comments closed.</p>
</txp:if_comments_allowed>

And the form 'lineitem' (type: comment):

bc. <txp:comment_id />

Displays a list of id numbers for comments on the current article, if comments are currently allowed.

Other tags used: "comments":comments, "else":else, "comment_id":comment-id.
