h1. If first category [todo:pw]

bc(code). <txp:if_first_category>


The "if&#95;first&#95;category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_first_category tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc(code). <txp:if_first_category>
...conditional statements...
</txp:if_first_category>


The tag will execute the contained statements if the current category (usually one inside the container or form of a "category&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category_list) is the first in the currently displayed list.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

This tag has no attributes.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1identify_1st_cat_in_category_list). Example 1: Identify 1st cat in category&#95;list

bc(code). <txp:category_list parent="group-1" children="0">
  <txp:if_first_category>
    <h3><txp:category /></h3>
  <txp:else />
    <txp:category link="1" />
  </txp:if_first_category>
</txp:category_list>


Other tags used: "category&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category_list, "category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=category, "else":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=else

*What this does...*
 Prevents the first category in the list from being hyperlinked to a category page *Why you might do it...*
 If you nest categories under a 'header' category you might want to show the header of the group but not allow people to link to its category page

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_407). Version 4.0.7

* Added as a new tag.

