---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "If section"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Conditional tags
---

h1. If section

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:if_section>

The *if_section* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <;txp:if_section>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_section>

The tag will execute the contained statements if the called page is part of the section specified with the name attribute.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @name="section"@
Comma-separated list of section names. For the default section, either use the text @default@ or a single comma @,@ (for example, both @name=", other_section"@ and @name="default, other_section"@ are equivalent).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Conditionally display text for a section

bc. <txp:if_section name="about">
    <p>Danger, ego pages ahead!</p>
<txp:else />
    <p>Nothing. Just nothing. Any ideas? Anybody?</p>
</txp:if_section>

Other tags used: "else":else.

h3. Example 2: Add a special class to mark the currently active section

bc. <nav>
    <ul>
        <li<txp:if_section name=", article"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
            <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="" />
        </li>
        <li<txp:if_section name="portfolio"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
            <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="portfolio" />
        </li>
        <li<txp:if_section name="about"> class="active"</txp:if_section>>
            <txp:section link="1" title="1" name="about" />
        </li>
    </ul>
</nav>

A different way of marking the active section can be accomplished by using "section_list":section-list and its attribute @active_class@. While the above snippet will mark the list item, "section_list":section-list will mark solely the link.

Other tags used: "section":section.
