---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "If yield"
tags:
  - Conditional tags
  - Structural tags
---

h1. If yield

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:if_yield>

The *if_yield* tag is a _conditional_ tag and always used as an opening and closing pair, like this...

bc. <txp:if_yield>
    ...conditional statement...
</txp:if_yield>

It tests the existence and/or value of a content set with the "yield":yield tag inside of an "output_form":output-form container tag.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @value="value"@
The (optional) value which the yield content must match in order for the contained statements to be executed. If this attribute is omitted, the tag returns 'true' if the yield content is defined. If this attribute's value is omitted (i.e. @value=""@), the tag returns 'true' if yield content is defined, but has no value.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Check if yield is defined

bc. <txp:if_yield>
    Output_form was used as a container.
<txp:else />
    No yield defined.
</txp:if_yield>

h3. Example 2: Check if yield content is set

bc. <txp:if_yield value="">
    No yield, is empty.
<txp:else />
    Yield set: <txp:yield />
</txp:if_yield>

Other tags used: "yield":yield.

h3. Example 3: Check against a specific yield content

bc. <txp:if_yield value="red">
	Yield is red.
</txp:if_yield>

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

Tag support added.
