h1. Image list DEPRECATED [todo:pw]

"mininav":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav

*Do not use this tag, it was renamed to "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images!*

bc(code). <txp:image_list />


The "image&#95;list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_list tag is a _single_ or _container_ tag that Textpattern will use to gather a list of matching images uploaded via the TXP "images&#95;panel&#95;":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel tab. Utilising the other image tags in the suite "image&#95;info":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_info, "image&#95;url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_url, "image&#95;date":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_date and "if&#95;thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=if_thumbnail) you can display simple image galleries from this list.

If used as a _container_ tag, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc(code). <txp:image_list>
...contained statements...
</txp:image_list>


This is equivalent to putting the contained statements into a form named “my&#95;form” and using

bc(code). <txp:image_list form="my_form" />


.

By default, the tag is context-sensitive, which means that in the absence of any other filter attributes (*id*, *name*, *category*, *author*, *realname*, *extension*, *thumbnail*), it will grab a list of image IDs from the currently viewed article's *article&#95;image* field. If it finds nothing there, it will check the URL to see if there is a category list in progress. If it finds nothg there too, the tag will display nothing. See the *auto&#95;detect* attribute for further information.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

*"id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#id=“integer”*
 Filter the images by this list of

bc(code). id


s assigned at upload. The IDs can be found on the "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images tab. Default: unset. *"name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#name=“image name”*
 Filter the images by this list of image names as shown on the "images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images tab. Default: unset. *"category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#category=“image category”*
 Filter the images by this list of category names as defined in the "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories tab. *"author":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#author=“author (login) ID”*
 Filter the images by this list of author IDs who uploaded the pictures to Textpattern. Default: unset. *"realname":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#realname=“author name”*
 Filter the image list so it only includes images uploaded by this list of author real names. The author names may be URL encoded (e.g. *realname=“John+Smith”*) and thus could be read from the current site.com/author/author+name URL. Note that this attribute may incur one extra query per name, so if it is possible to use the raw author instead it will be faster. Default: unset. *"extension":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#extension=“.extension”*
 Filter the images by this list of image extensions, including the leading dot. Example:

bc(code). extension=".jpg, .png"


Default: unset. *"thumbnail":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#thumbnail=“boolean”*
 Filter the image list to only include images that have a thumbnail (

bc(code). 1


) or not (

bc(code). 0


). Default: unset (i.e. all images). *"label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#label=“text”*
 Text to display above the list of images as a label. Default: unset. *"labeltag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to be used to wrap the label, specified without brackets. Default: unset. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to be used to wrap the

bc(code). img


tag, specified without brackets. Default: unset. *"html&#95;id":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#html_id=“id number”*
 The HTML

bc(code). id


attribute applied to the

bc(code). wraptag


, if set, otherwise to the

bc(code). img


tag. Default: unset. *"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS

bc(code). class


attribute applied to the

bc(code). wraptag


, if set, otherwise to the

bc(code). img


tag. Default: unset. *"break":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#break=“tag text”*
 The (X)HTML tag (without brackets) or string to separate each image. Default: unset. *"limit":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#limit=“integer”*
 The number of images to display per page. Default:

bc(code). 0


(unlimited). *"offset":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#offset=“integer”*
 The number of images to skip. Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"pageby":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#pageby=“integer” (or* _“limit”_*)*
 The number of images to jump forward or back when an "older":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=older or "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer link is clicked. Without this attribute, pagination is not available; you will simply see *limit* images. You may specify

bc(code). pageby="limit"


to allow pagination to automatically follow the value of the

bc(code). limit


attribute. NOTE: "newer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=newer and "older":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=older will paginate all content types at once. Default: unset. *"sort":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#sort=“sort value(s)”*
 How to sort the resulting image list. Specify an image attribute from the ones below and add either *asc* or *desc* to sort in ascending or descending order, respectively. Values:

bc(code). id


(image id#)

bc(code). name


(image name)

bc(code). category


bc(code). extension


(image extension)

bc(code). author


bc(code). alt


bc(code). caption


bc(code). date


bc(code). w


(image width)

bc(code). h


(image height)

bc(code). thumb_w


(image thumbnail width)

bc(code). thumb_h


(image thumbnail height)

bc(code). rand()


("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand) Default:

bc(code). name asc


*"form":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#form=“form name”*
 Use specified form for each image. If not used, and the container is empty, the tag will output a list of images that are compatible with "image&#95;display":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=image_display. Default: unset. *"auto&#95;detect":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#auto_detect=“string context”*
 List of Textpattern contexts to consider when automatically searching for images. If you wish to turn off the automatic check, set this to *auto&#95;detect=““*. You can choose from the following contexts: *article* to look in the article&#95;image field *category* to look in the URL for a category list *author* to look in the URL for an author list Default: *article, category, author*

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1varying_attributes). Example 1: varying attributes

This example shows the outcome of various attribute configurations to give you an idea of what to expect from the tag. More concrete examples follow.

NB: THESE MAY NOT BE CORRECT ANY MORE DUE TO TAG CHANGES SINCE THE EXAMPLES WERE WRITTEN. NEED VERIFICATION.

*&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 uses the current article image field as a list of image IDs. If the article image field is empty, it contains names/URLs, or the tag is used on an article list page, it returns no images. If, however, the tag is used on a category list page (e.g.

bc(code). category/image/photos


) then the *photos* category would be used *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list auto&#95;detect=”” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 displays all images in the database. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list id=“” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt; &lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list name=“” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt; &lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 no images displayed. This means that if you did some tag-in-tag magic such as :

bc(code). category='<txp:custom_field name="my_cats" />'


it will show no images if the custom field is empty. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list id=“2,3,6” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 display images 2, 3, and 6. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list name=“lion.jpg, zebra.jpg” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 the named images are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list name=“pengiun.jpg” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 no images are displayed (mis-spelled image name). *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“mammals, birds” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images in the named categories are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“, mammals, birds” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images in the named categories and any uncategorized images are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“ ” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 just uncategorized images are displayed (note that

bc(code). category=","


also works, but a space looks better). *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list author=“attenborough, morris” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images by author (ID) *attenborough* and *morris* are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list realname=“David+Attenborough” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images by author *David Attenborough* are displayed. This incurs one extra query to look up the author's ID from the given real name. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“mammals, birds” author=“attenborough, morris” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images in the named categories that are assigned to the named authors are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“mammals, birds” extension=“.jpg” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all jpg images in the named categories are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“mammals, birds” extension=“.jpg” author=“attenborough, morris” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all jpg images in the named categories that are assigned to the named authors are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list extension=“.gif” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all GIF images are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list category=“mammals, birds” thumbnail=“1” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images in the named categories that have thumbnails assigned to them are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list thumbnail=“1” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images that have thumbnails assigned to them are displayed. *&lt;code&gt;&lt;txp:image&#95;list thumbnail=“0” /&gt;&lt;/code&gt;*
 all images that do not have thumbnails assigned to them are displayed.

h4(#example_2description_goes_here). Example 2: description goes here

*What it does...*
 ...

h3(sectionedit3#genealogy). Genealogy

h4(#version_430). Version 4.3.0

* tag introduced

