---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Image date"
tags:
  - Image tags
---

h1. Image date

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:image_date />

The *image_date* tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the uploaded date of the current (or given) image. Should usually be used in an [[image form]], although it may be used on its own providing you specify an @id@ or @name@.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @id="integer"@
An @id@ assigned at upload of an image to display. The IDs can be found on the [[Images administration panel]].
Default: unset.
* @format="format string"@
Override the default date format set in the [[Preferences administration panel]].
Values: any valid "strftime":http://php.net/strftime string values, @since@, @iso8601@ ("ISO 8601 reference":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601), @w3cdtf@ ("W3CDTF reference":http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime), or @rfc822@ ("RFC 822 reference":http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc822/#z28).
Default: the 'Archive date format' set in preferences.
* @name="image name"@
An image to display, given by its image name as shown on the [[Images administration panel]]. If both @name@ and @id@ are specified, the @id@ takes precedence.
Default: unset.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display additional image information

bc. <txp:images category="mammals">
    <a href="<txp:image_url />">
        <txp:thumbnail />
    </a>
    <div class="img-info">
        <txp:image_info type="caption, author" break=" by " />
        <txp:image_date format="%e %b %Y" />
    </div>
</txp:images>

Other tags used: "images":images, "image_url":image-url, "image_info":image-info, "thumbnail":thumbnail.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

Tag support added.
