---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Image index"
tags:
  - Image tags
  - List tags
---

h1. Image index

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:image_index />

The *image_index* tag is a _single_ tag that is intended to be used in tandem with "image_display":image-display. It renders thumbnails of all images contained in an image category. This category can be specified as an attribute to the tag and defaults to the current site category as given in the page's URL.

The thumbnail images are linked to an address which will pass the image ID plus the active category on to the tandem "image_display":image-display tag. It is up to the user to include this tandem tag at an appropriate place inside the page template.

p(alert-block information). Note: As the image category is passed into "image_display":image-display, it requires to either place the 'receiving' image_display on an article independent portion of the page (i.e., outside of the article form), or otherwise both the article used for display and the images have to share a 'common' category.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @category="category name"@
Category of images to display.
Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s).
Default: presently viewed category.
* @limit="integer"@
The number of images to display.
Default: @0@ (no limit).
* @offset="integer"@
The number of images to skip.
Default: @0@.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort resulting list.
Values:
@alt@ (image alt text)
@author@
@caption@ (image caption text)
@category@ (image category)
@date@ (date posted)
@ext@ (image extension)
@h@ (image height)
@id@ (image id#)
@name@ (image name)
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@thumbnail@
@w@ (image width)
Each field in the @txp_image@ database table can be used as a sort key.
Default: @name asc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Create a list of images in a category

bc. <txp:image_index category="personal" wraptag="ol" break="li" />
<txp:image_display />

Shows the thumbnail images from the category 'personal'.

Other tags used: "image_display":image-display.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@c@ attribute deprecated and renamed @category@.
