---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Textpattern tag reference"
tags:
  - Tag reference
---

h1. Textpattern tag reference

Pages describing each Textpattern tag are alphabetised at below, by tag name. See "Tag basics":tag-basics/index.textile for Textpattern tag fundamentals and overview.

h2. Subcategories

*TODO*

h2. Complete list of Textpattern tags

h3. A

* "article":article.textile
* "article custom":article-custom.textile
* "article id":article-id.textile
* "article image":article-image.textile
* "article url title":article-url-title.textile
* "author":author.textile
* "author email":author-email.textile

h3. B

* "body":body.textile
* "breadcrumb":breadcrumb.textile

h3. C

* "category":category.textile
* "category list":category-list.textile
* "category1":category1.textile
* "category2":category1.textile
* "comment anchor":comment-anchor.textile
* "comment email":comment-email.textile
* "comment email input":comment-email-input.textile
* "comment id":comment-id.textile
* "comment message":comment-message.textile
* "comment message input":comment-message-input.textile
* "comment name":comment-name.textile
* "comment name input":comment-name-input.textile
* "comment permlink":comment-permlink.textile
* "comment preview":comment-preview.textile
* "comment remember":comment-remember.textile
* "comment submit":comment-submit.textile
* "comment time":comment-time.textile
* "comment web":comment-web.textile
* "comment web input":comment-web-input.textile
* "comments":comments.textile
* "comments count":comments-count.textile
* "comments error":comments-error.textile
* "comments form":comments-form.textile
* "comments help":comments-help.textile
* "comments invite":comments-invite.textile
* "comments preview":comments-preview.textile
* "css":css.textile
* "custom field":custom-field.textile

h3. E

* "else":else.textile
* "email":email.textile
* "error message":error-message.textile
* "error status":error-status.textile
* "excerpt":excerpt.textile
* "expires":expires.textile

h3. F

* "feed link":feed-link.textile
* "file download":file-download.textile
* "file download author":file-download-author.textile
* "file download category":file-download-category.textile
* "file download created":file-download-created.textile
* "file download description":file-download-description.textile
* "file download downloads":file-download-downloads.textile
* "file download id":file-download-id.textile
* "file download link":file-download-link.textile
* "file download list":file-download-list.textile
* "file download modified":file-download-modified.textile
* "file download name":file-download-name.textile
* "file download size":file-download-size.textile

h3. H

* "hide":hide.textile

h3. I

* "if article author":if-article-author.textile
* "if article category":if-article-category.textile
* "if article id":if-article-id.textile
* "if article image":if-article-image.textile
* "if article list":if-article-list.textile
* "if article section":if-article-section.textile
* "if author":if-author.textile
* "if category":if-category.textile
* "if comments":if-comments.textile
* "if comments allowed":if-comments-allowed.textile
* "if comments disallowed":if-comments-disallowed.textile
* "if comments error":if-comments-error.textile
* "if comments preview":if-comments-preview.textile
* "if custom field":if-custom-field.textile
* "if different":if-different.textile
* "if excerpt":if-excerpt.textile
* "if expired":if-expired.textile
* "if expires":if-expires.textile
* "if first article":if-first-article.textile
* "if first category":if-first-category.textile
* "if first file":if-first-file.textile
* "if first image":if-first-image.textile
* "if first link":if-first-link.textile
* "if first section":if-first-section.textile
* "if individual article":if-individual-article.textile
* "if keywords":if-keywords.textile
* "if last article":if-last-article.textile
* "if last category":if-last-category.textile
* "if last file":if-last-file.textile
* "if last image":if-last-image.textile
* "if last link":if-last-link.textile
* "if last section":if-last-section.textile
* "if plugin":if-plugin.textile
* "if search":if-search.textile
* "if search results":if-search-results.textile
* "if section":if-section.textile
* "if status":if-status.textile
* "if thumbnail":if-thumbnail.textile
* "if variable":if-variable.textile
* "image":image.textile
* "image author":image-author.textile
* "image date":image-date.textile
* "image display":image-display.textile
* "image index":image-index.textile
* "image info":image-info.textile
* "image url":image-url.textile
* "images":images.textile

h3. L

* "lang":lang.textile
* "link":link.textile
* "link author":link-author.textile
* "link category":link-category.textile
* "link date":link-date.textile
* "link description":link-description.textile
* "link feed link":link-feed-link.textile
* "link id":link-id.textile
* "link name":link-name.textile
* "link to home":link-to-home.textile
* "link to next":link-to-next.textile
* "link to prev":link-to-prev.textile
* "link url":link-url.textile
* "linkdesctitle":linkdesctitle.textile
* "linklist":linklist.textile

h3. M

* "meta author":meta-author.textile
* "meta description":meta-description.textile
* "meta keywords":meta-keywords.textile
* "modified":modified.textile

h3. N

* "newer":newer.textile
* "next title":next-title.textile

h3. O

* "older":older.textile
* "output form":output-form.textile

h3. P

* "page title":page-title.textile
* "page url":page-url.textile
* "password protect":password-protect.textile
* "permlink":permlink.textile
* "php":php.textile
* "popup":popup.textile
* "posted":posted.textile
* "prev title":prev-title.textile

h3. R

* "recent articles":recent-articles.textile
* "recent comments":recent-comments.textile
* "related articles":related-articles.textile
* "rsd":rsd.textile

h3. S

* "search input":search-input.textile
* "search result count":search-result-count.textile
* "search result date":search-result-date.textile
* "search result excerpt":search-result-excerpt.textile
* "search result title":search-result-title.textile
* "search result url":search-result-url.textile
* "search term":search-term.textile
* "section":section.textile
* "section list":section-list.textile
* "site name":site-name.textile
* "site slogan":site-slogan.textile
* "site url":site-url.textile

h3. T

* "text":text.textile
* "thumbnail":thumbnail.textile
* "title":title.textile
* "txp die":txp-die.textile

h3. V

* "variable":variable.textile

h3. Y

* "yield":yield.textile
