h1. Link category [todo:pw]

bc(code). <txp:link_category />


The "link_category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_category tag is a _single_ tag which returns the link category as text. This tag is used in a “link” form or inside the "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist container tag to return information about the current link in a "linklist":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=linklist.

h3(sectionedit1#attributes). Attributes

*"class":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#class=“class name”*
 CSS class to apply to the wraptag Default: unset. *"label":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#label=“text”*
 Label for the top of the list. Default: unset. *"labeltag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#labeltag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to wrap the label at the top of the list. Default: unset. *"title":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#title=“integer”*
 Display link category name or its title. Values:

bc(code). 0


(category name) or

bc(code). 1


(category title). Default:

bc(code). 0


. *"wraptag":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=attributes_cross-reference#wraptag=“tag text”*
 HTML tag to be used to wrap the category, without brackets. Default: unset.

h3(sectionedit2#examples). Examples

h4(#example_1display_a_link_with_class_attribute). Example 1: Display a link with class attribute

bc(code). <a class="thislink" href="<txp:link_url />">
<txp:link_name escape="html" />
</a> : <txp:link_category title="1" />


Other tags used: "link_url":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_url, "link_name":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=link_name

