---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Linklist"
tags:
  - Link tags
  - List tags
---

h1. Linklist

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:linklist />

The *linklist* tag is a _single_ or a _container_ tag which is used to produce a list of links from the predefined list created on the "Links administration panel":../administration/links-panel.

If used as a container, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc. <txp:linklist>
    ...contained statements...
</txp:linklist>

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @author="author login name"@
Restrict to links with the specified author.
Default: unset.
* @auto_detect="string context"@
List of Textpattern contexts to consider when automatically searching for links. If you wish to turn off the automatic check, set this to @auto_detect=""@.
Values: @category@ (to look in the URL for a category list) and/or @author@ (to look in the URL for an author list).
Default: @category, author@.
* @category="category name(s)"@
Restrict to links from specified categories.
Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s). *Note:* category names may be different to the 'Title' you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitised for URL use. Check the "Categories administration panel":../administration/categories-panel to ensure you are using the correct names.
Default: unset.
* @form="form name"@
Use specified form.
Default: @plainlinks@.
* @id="integer"@
Filter the links by this list of @id@s assigned at link creation time. The IDs can be found on the "Links administration panel":../administration/links-panel.
Default: unset.
* @limit="integer"@
Number of links to display.
Default: @0@ (no limit).
* @offset="integer"@
The number of links to skip.
Default: @0@.
* @pageby="integer or limit"@
Number of links to jump each page. Without this attribute, you cannot navigate using the "newer":newer and "older":older tags. Usually you will want to track the @limit@ attribute. Use @pageby="limit"@ to do this, which means you will not have to amend two values if you subsequently decide to alter the @limit@.
Default: unset
* @realname="author real name"@
Restrict to links with the specified author name.
Default: unset.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort resulting list.
Values:
@category@.
@date@.
@description@.
@id@ (link id#).
@linkname@.
@linksort@.
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@url@.
Default: @linksort asc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g. @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g. labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: List of links from specified category

bc. <txp:linklist form="Links" category="general" limit="10" sort="linksort" wraptag="p" />

h3. Example 2: An ordered list of links

bc. <txp:if_category name="100">
    <txp:linklist label="First Floor" category="First" wraptag="ol" break="li" />
</txp:if_category>
<txp:if_category name="200">
    <txp:linklist label="Second Floor" category="Second" wraptag="ol" break="li" />
</txp:if_category>

This example uses the displayed page's category as the criterion for choosing the linklist's category.

Other tags used: "if_category":if_category.

h3. Example 3: Used as a container tag

bc. <txp:linklist wraptrag="ol" break="li">
    <txp:link /><br />
    <txp:link_description /><br />
    <txp:linkdesctitle />
</txp:linklist>

The tags within the container are repeated for each link provided by the linklist tag.

Other tags used: "link":link, "linkdesctitle":linkdesctitle, "link_description":link-description.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.5.0

@id@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.3.0

@pageby@ attribute added to enable paging via "newer":newer and "older":older tags.
@author@ and @realname@ attributes added.
@auto_detect@ attribute added to allow automatic (URL-based) contextual listings.
