---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Link author"
tags:
  - Link tags
---

h1. Link author

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:link_author />

The *link_author* tag is a _single_ tag that Textpattern will replace with the author's name associated with the current link in a "linklist":linklist. It can *only* be used inside @<txp:linklist />@.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="link type (boolean)"@
Whether to hyperlink the author or not.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @section="section name"@
Direct any linked author name to the nominated section instead of to the default (front) page.
Default: unset.
* @this_section="boolean"@
If set to @1@, the linked author name will direct users to an author list in the current section, otherwise author list from all sections is displayed.
Values: @0@ (no, all sections) or @1@ (yes, this section only).
Default: @0@.
* @title="boolean"@
Whether to display the author's real name or login name.
Values: @0@ (login name) or @1@ (real name).
Default: @1@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="tag"@
HTML tag to wrap around the author name, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

Tag support added.
