---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Password protect"
tags:
  - Markup tags
---

h1. Password protect

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:password_protect />

The *password_protect* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag. When Textpattern encounters the password protect tag it causes the user to be prompted for a username and password, if these match the attributes set in the tag, the user is allowed access to the site/content. The tag can go anywhere, from page templates, to articles and forms.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @login="text"@
The username the user has to enter.
Default: unset.
* @pass="text"@
The password the user has to enter.
Default: unset.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Cause Textpattern to prompt the user for a login

bc. <txp:password_protect login="theusername" pass="thepassword" />

p(alert-block information). Note: It is not adequate to protect a single section. This is not due to the tag itself, but rather because of how Textpattern handles URLs. By changing the URL an article can be rendered with a different section template, which would mean that the tag in the protected section would not be rendered and could not protect the article - only page requests that would be rendered in that section would be protected.

h3. Example 2: Container tag

bc. <txp:password_protect>
    <p>
        This content is only visible to authenticated users.
        <a>Click here</a> for free diamonds.
    </p>
</txp:password_protect>

When used as a container, the tag hides the wrapped content if the user doesn't have access to it. When using authentication, it prompts for login too, but doesn't kill the page.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

Can be used as a container tag.
