---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Popup"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Navigation tags
---

h1. Popup

h2. Syntax

bc. <txp:popup />

The *popup* tag is a _single_ tag. Textpattern will replace this tag with a popup selector for browsing by section or category.

h2. Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @section="section_name"@
Jump to the selected category for the named section.
Default: unset.
* @this_section="boolean"@
Jump to the selected category for the currently active section.
Values: @0@ (no) or @1@ (yes).
Default: @0@.
* @type="type"@
Values: @s@ (section), @c@ (category).
Default: @c@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2. Examples

h3. Example 1: Browse by category popup selector

bc. <txp:popup type="c" wraptag="p" />

h3. Example 2: Popup selector with custom label

bc. <txp:popup label="Browse this site" type="c" wraptag="p" />

h2. Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@class@ attribute added.
