---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Posted"
tags:
  - Article tags
---

h1. Posted

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:posted />

The *posted* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the publish date of the article being displayed. The format is determined by the settings specified in the 'Date format' or 'Archive date format' fields in the [[Preferences administration panel]].

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @format="format string"@
Override the default date format set in the [[Preferences administration panel]].
Values: any valid "strftime":http://php.net/strftime string values, @since@, @iso8601@ ("ISO 8601 reference":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601), @w3cdtf@ ("W3CDTF reference":http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime), or @rfc822@ ("RFC 822 reference":http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc822/#z28).
Default: the 'Date format' set in preferences.
* @gmt="boolean"@
Return either local time (according to the set time zone preferences) or GMT.
Values: @0@ (local time) or @1@ (GMT).
Default: @0@.
* @lang="ISO language code"@
Format time string suitable for the specified language (locale).
Values: locales adhere to "ISO-639":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639-2.
Default: unset (time format set in the [[Preferences administration panel]].

h3. Common presentational attributes

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) the posted date, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="p"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: 'since' format date setting

bc. <p>
    Posted:
    <txp:posted format="since" />
</p>

This would result in the following HTML output:

bc. <p>Posted: 29 days ago</p>

h3. Example 2: Custom format date setting

bc. <p>
    Posted:
    <txp:posted format="%b %d, %Y" />
</p>

This would result in the following HTML output:

bc. <p>Posted: Feb 03, 2014</p>

h3. Example 3: Extended custom format date setting

bc. <p>
    Posted:
    <time datetime="<txp:posted format="iso8601" />">
        <txp:posted class="time-day" wraptag="span" format="%d" />
        <txp:posted class="time-month" wraptag="span" format="%b" />
        <txp:posted class="time-year" wraptag="span" format="%Y" />
    </time>
</p>

This would result in the following HTML output:

bc. <p>
    Posted:
    <time datetime="2014-02-03T10:43:39Z">
        <span class="time-day">03</span>
        <span class="time-month">Feb</span>
        <span class="time-year">2014</span>
    </time>
</p>

This provides styling hooks for each date part.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.4

@class@ and @wraptag@ attributes added.
