---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Recent articles"
tags:
  - Article tags
---

h1. Recent articles

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:recent_articles />

The *recent_articles* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to produce a list of permanent links to recent articles by title.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @category="category name"@
Restrict to articles from specified category/categories. Note: the category names may be different to the title you typed when you created the category, as the names are sanitised for URL use. Check the [[Categories page]] to ensure you are using the correct names.
Values: (comma separated list of) category name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all categories.
* @limit="integer"@
The number of articles to display.
Default: @10@.
* @no_widow="boolean"@
Control "widows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widows_and_orphans and overrule 'widows' setting in the [[Preferences page]].
Values: @0@ allow the last word in the title to appear on its own line, i.e. the title content is rendered unchanged, @1@ ensure the last word is not left on its own line - Textpattern inserts an invisible code (a non-breaking space) between the last two words.
Default: as set in the [[Preferences page]].
* @offset="integer"@
The number of articles to skip.
Default: @0@.
* @section="section name"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort resulting list.
Values:
@authorid@ (author name).
@category1@.
@category2@.
@comments_count@.
@custom_1@ through @custom_10@ (from Textpattern 4.2.0 onwards: @custom_n@ where 'n' is the number of your custom field - for numeric values use @(custom_n+0)@).
@id@ (article id#).
@image@ (article image id#).
@keywords@.
@lastmod@ (date last modified).
@lastmodid@ (author name of last modification).
@Posted@ (date posted).
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@section@.
@status@.
@title@.
@url_title@.
Default: @posted desc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g., @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g., labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Labelled list of recent articles

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Latest and greatest" limit="5" />

Produces a list of the 5 most recent articles, along with the label 'Latest and greatest'.

h3. Example 2: List of recent articles by category, with a heading

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Latest" labeltag="h3" break="li" wraptag="ol" category="code" sort="Section desc" />

Produces a numerical list of the 5 most recent articles categorised with @code@, along with the heading 'Latest'.

h3. Example 3: Offsetting a recent article list

bc. <txp:recent_articles label="Other recent articles" limit="5" offset="1" />

Produces a list of the 5 most recent articles _apart_ from the most recent one, along with the label 'Other recent articles'.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.6.0

@offset@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.6

Added support for comma separated lists for @section@ and @category@ attributes.
