---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Related articles"
tags:
  - Article tags
  - List tags
---

h1. Related articles

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:related_articles>

The *related_articles* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or a _container_ tag, and is used to produce a list of related (by category) articles.

If used as a container, it must be specified as an opening and closing pair of tags, like this:

bc. <txp:related_articles>
    ...contained statements...
</txp:related_articles>

This is equivalent to putting the contained statements into a form named 'my_form' and using @<txp:related_articles form="my_form" />@.

Related matches are selected as follows:

If a match to category 1 ("category1":category1) or category 2 ("category2":category2) of the individual article being displayed is found in either category 1 or category 2 of any other article in the database, it will cause that article to be listed as related.

If category 1 of the individual article being displayed is left blank and category 2 is not blank, then all other articles are selected as being related. If both categories are left blank, then no articles are selected.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @form="form name"@
Use specified form.
Default: unset. If left empty, the permlinked article title(s) will be displayed.
* @limit="integer"@
Number of articles to display.
Default: @10@.
* @match="category number(s)"@
Restrict to articles related by specified category.
Values: @Category1@, @Category2@, @Category1,Category2@.
Default: @Category1,Category2@.
* @no_widow="boolean"@
Control "widows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widows_and_orphans and overrule 'widows' setting in the "Preferences administration panel":../administration/preferences-panel.
Values: @0@ allow the last word in the title to appear on its own line, i.e.,the title content is rendered unchanged, @1@ ensure the last word is not left on its own line - Textpattern inserts an invisible code (a non-breaking space) between the last two words.
Default: as set in the "Preferences administration panel":../administration/preferences-panel.
* @section="section name(s)"@
Restrict to articles from specified section(s).
Values: (comma separated list of) section name(s).
Default: unset, retrieves from all sections.
* @sort="sort value(s)"@
How to sort resulting list.
Values:
@authorid@ (author name).
@category1@.
@category2@.
@comments_count@.
@custom_1@ through @custom_10@ (from Textpattern 4.2.0 onwards: @custom_n@ where 'n' is the number of your custom field - for numeric values use @(custom_n+0)@).
@id@ (article id#).
@image@ (article image id#).
@keywords@.
@lastmod@ (date last modified).
@lastmodid@ (author name of last modification).
@Posted@ (date posted).
@rand()@ ("random":http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mathematical-functions.html#function_rand).
@section@.
@status@.
@title@.
@url_title@.
Default: @posted desc@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @break="value"@
Where value is an HTML element, specified without brackets (e.g. @break="li"@) or some string to separate list items.
Default: @br@ (but see [[break cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @labeltag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) label, specified without brackets (e.g. labeltag="h3").
Default: unset.
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Labelled list of related articles

bc. <txp:related_articles label="Related to this:" limit="5" />

h3. Example 2: Related articles as an unordered list

bc. <txp:related_articles label="Related" limit="10" break="li" wraptag="ul" />

h3. Example 3: Used as a container tag

bc. <txp:related_articles label="Related" labeltag="h3" limit="10" break="li" wraptag="ul">
    <txp:permlink>
        <txp:title />
    </txp:permlink>
    by
    <txp:author />
</txp:related_articles>

Other tags used: "permlink":permlink, "title":title, "author":author.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Can be used as a container tag.
@form@ and @no-widow@ attributes added.

h3. Version 4.0.6

Support added for comma separated list for @section@ attribute.
