---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Search input"
tags:
  - Search tags
---

h1. Search input

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:search_input />

The *search_input* tag is a _single_ tag. This tag will provide a text entry field for search parameters and an optional button to initiate the search.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @button="text"@
Creates and labels a button to initiate the search.
Default: unset (no button is created).
* @form="form name"@
Use specified form template to build a customised HTML form.
Default: @search_input@.
* @html_id="id"@
The HTML @id@ attribute assigned to the search form.
Default: unset.
* @match="match type"@
Set the search mode. Choose from:
@exact@: search terms must exactly match the words in the article in the order given. This mode is also automatically selected if the search term is surrounded with double quotes.
@any@: any of the search terms in an article will cause it to show up in the results.
@all@: all of the search terms in the article must exist (in any order) for the article to be included in the results.
Default @exact@.
* @section="section name"@
Use the specified section as the destination page that will display the search results.
Default: unset (use the front page).
* @size="integer"@
Sets the @size@ attribute of the search @input@ field.
Default: @15@.

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value.
Default: tag name or unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @label="text"@
Label prepended to item.
Default: unset (but see [[label cross-reference]] for exceptions).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap markup, specified without brackets (e.g. @wraptag="div"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display a search input form

bc. <txp:search_input label="Search" button="Search" size="20" wraptag="div" />

h3. Example 2: Elements required for building a customised HTML search form

You can build your own custom search form by specifying @form="form-name"@ inside the @<txp:search_input />@ tag:

bc. <txp:search_input form="form-name" />

You would then need to build your Form (i.e. @form-name@), and the absolute minimum Textpattern tags and attributes required would be:

bc. <form action="<txp:site_url />">
    <input name="q" type="search" />
</form>

When using a customised form template, Textpattern doesn't automatically wrap the HTML form output with @<form>@ tags, thus you need the opening and closing @<form>@ tag pair. The @name="q"@ attribute and value is *required* to initiate a search query.

Other tags used: "site_url":site-url.

p(alert-block information). Textpattern will use a user defined form named @search_results@, or an internally defined default form if no search result form is defined by you.

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.3.0

@match@ attribute added.

h3. Version 4.0.7

@html_id@ attribute added.
