---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Section"
tags:
  - Navigation tags
  - Structural tags
---

h1. Section

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3
* "Genealogy":#sec4

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:section>

The *section* tag can be used as either a _single_ tag or _container_ tag. It will display information about the section as defined by either the @name@ attribute, the section currently being viewed, or the section of the article being displayed (if used within a Textpattern 'article' type [[Form template]], or an "if_individual_article":if-individual-article conditional tag).

When used as a containing tag, it will turn the contents into a link to that section. Otherwise, it will return plain text.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @link="boolean"@ (works only in the _single_ tag)
Display as plain text or a link.
Values: @0@ (plain text) or @1@ (link).
Default: @0@.
* @name="section name"@
Display the named section.
Default: unset (display the current section).
* @title="boolean"@
Display either the section name or its title.
Values: @0@ (name) or @1@ (title).
Default: @0@.
* @url="boolean"@
Display plain URL or full link.
Values: @0@ or @1@.
Default: @0@ (display title or full link, depending on @link@).

h3. Common presentational attributes

These attributes, which affect presentation, are shared by many tags. Note that default values can vary among tags.

* @class="class name"@
HTML @class@ to apply to the @wraptag@ attribute value. If no wraptag is supplied (and @link="1"@), the class is applied to the anchor instead.
Default: unset (see [[class cross-reference]]).
* @wraptag="element"@
HTML element to wrap (markup) list block, specified without brackets (e.g., @wraptag="ul"@).
Default: unset (but see [[wraptag cross-reference]] for exceptions).

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display the current section name

bc. <txp:section />

h3. Example 2: Display hyperlinked section title

bc. <txp:section link="1" title="1" />

In an article form, it displays the article's section title as a hyperlink to the section home page. Otherwise, it displays the title of the section currently being viewed as a hyperlink to the section home page.

h3. Example 3: Display a link to a specified section

bc. <txp:section link="1" title="1" wraptag="p" name="archive" />

Displays a hyperlink to the 'archive' section home page, wrapped in @<p>@ tags, using the section's title as link text.

h3. Example 4: Container tag example

bc. <txp:section name="archive">
    My Archive
</txp:section>

Displays the text 'My Archive' as a hyperlink to the 'archive' section home page. HTML output for clean URLs:

bc. <a href="http://example.com/archive/">My Archive</a>

And for messy URLs:

bc. <a href="http://example.com/index.php?s=archive">My Archive</a>

h3. Example 5: Single tag example

bc. <a href="<txp:section name="about" url="1" />">
    <txp:section name="about" title="1" />
</a>

Displays the section title 'About' as a hyperlink to the 'about' section home page. HTML output for clean URLs:

bc. <a href="http://example.com/about/">About</a>

And for messy URLs:

bc. <a href="http://example.com/index.php?s=about">About</a>

h2(#sec4). Genealogy

h3. Version 4.0.7

Applies @class@ attribute to the @<a>@ element when @wraptag@ is empty.
@url@ attribute added.
