---
layout: document
category: tag-reference
published: true
title: "Text"
tags:
  - Tag reference
  - Language tags
---

h1. Text

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:text />

The *text* tag is a _single_ tag which is primarily used to return localised language strings from the @txp_lang@ database table.

p(alert-block information). Note: only language strings designated with a type of @common@ or @public@ are available to use. All other language string types are reserved for use within the Textpattern system itself.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @escape="html"@
Escape HTML entities such as @<@, @>@ and @&@ within text.
Values: @html@ or unset.
Default: @html@.
* @item="text"@
Piece of text to display, preferably an item from the @name@ column of the @txp_lang@ database table. If the given item matches a key there, the contents of the respective item in the @data@ column will be returned. Otherwise, whatever you supply as the @item@ value is returned verbatim.

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display some localised text

bc. <txp:older>
    <txp:text item="older" />
</txp:older>

Outputs the text 'older' inside the @<txp:older />@ tag, respecting the current Textpattern language, instead of using the tag like this: @<txp:older>older</txp:older>@ which would always render the English text 'older', it replaces the contents with the value assigned to the name 'older' in the current language. So you would see a link with the word 'älter' if you were using German @de@ as the Textpattern site language.

Other tags used: "older":textile.
