---
layout: document
category: tags
published: true
title: "Title"
tags:
  - Article tags
---

h1. Title

On this page:

* "Syntax":#sec1
* "Attributes":#sec2
* "Examples":#sec3

h2(#sec1). Syntax

bc. <txp:title />

The *title* tag is a _single_ tag which is used to return the title of the article being displayed. It is usually used in an 'article' type form.

h2(#sec2). Attributes

Tag will accept the following attributes (*case-sensitive*):

* @no_widow="boolean"@
Control "widows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widows_and_orphans and overrule 'widows' setting in the [[Preferences administration panel]].
Values: @0@ allow the last word in the title to appear on its own line, i.e. the title content is rendered unchanged, @1@ ensure the last word is not left on its own line - Textpattern inserts an invisible code (a non-breaking space) between the last two words.
Default: as set in the [[Preferences administration panel]].

h2(#sec3). Examples

h3. Example 1: Display an article title

bc. <h1>
    <txp:title />
</h1>
<p>
    <txp:author /> at <txp:posted />
</p>
<txp:body />

Shows the current article title as the page heading, a few other pieces of information such as the article's author and posted date, then the article body itself.

Other tags used: "author":author, "posted":posted, "body":body.

h3. Example 2: Display a hyperlinked title

bc. <txp:permlink>
    <txp:title />
</txp:permlink>

Wraps a permanent link to the current article around its title.

Other tags used: "permlink":permlink.
