\n"stop":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=stop

h3(sectionedit1#overview). Overview

Conditional tags allow one page or form template to display different elements depending on how the template is used. Code inside a conditional tag is only executed if the conditions of the tag are true. Some conditional tags have an “else” feature that will execute code only if the conditions are false.

Granted that's not the clearest description (it could be better) so here's a few code examples to help it along:

h4(#display_different_navigational_links_on_individual_article_and_article_list_pages). Display different navigational links on individual article and article list pages

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:article /&gt;

&lt;txp:if_individual_article&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;&lt;txp:link_to_prev&gt;Previous article&lt;/txp:link_to_prev&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_individual_article&gt;

&lt;txp:if_article_list&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;&lt;txp:older&gt;Older articles&lt;/txp:older&gt;&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;/txp:if_article_list&gt;
</pre>

h4(#use_special_formatting_for_all_the_articles_by_a_specific_author). Use special formatting for all the articles by a specific author

bc(code). <txp:if_article_author name="the-wizard">
   <txp:article form="wizard-form" />
<txp:else />
   <txp:article />
</txp:if_article_author>


h3(sectionedit2#nesting). Nesting

Conditional tags may be nested, unless you are nesting a tag within the *same* tag.

For example, these *will* work:

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:if_section&gt;
I'm looking at a particular section.

&lt;txp:if_category name=&quot;oranges&quot;&gt;
I'm also looking at the category named &quot;oranges&quot;.
&lt;/txp:if_category&gt;

&lt;/txp:if_section&gt;
</pre>

<pre class="code">
&lt;txp:if_custom_field name=&quot;apples&quot;&gt;
apples!
&lt;/txp:if_custom_field&gt;

&lt;txp:if_custom_field name=&quot;oranges&quot;&gt;
oranges!
&lt;/txp:if_custom_field&gt;
</pre>

These will *not* work:

bc(code). <txp:if_custom_field name="apples">
apples!
<txp:else />
    <txp:if_custom_field name="oranges">
      oranges!
    </txp:if_custom_field>
</txp:if_custom_field>


h3(sectionedit3#conditional_article_tags). Conditional Article Tags

* &lt;"if_article_list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_list&gt; ... &lt;/"if_article_list":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_list&gt;
* &lt;"if_individual_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_individual_article&gt; ... &lt;/"if_individual_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_individual_article&gt;
* &lt;"if_first_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_first_article&gt; ... &lt;/"if_first_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_first_article&gt;
* &lt;"if_last_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_last_article&gt; ... &lt;/"if_last_article":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_last_article&gt;
* &lt;"if_different":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_different&gt; ... &lt;/"if_different":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_different&gt;
* &lt;"if_article_section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_section&gt; ... &lt;/"if_article_section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_section&gt;
* &lt;"if_article_category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_category&gt; ... &lt;/"if_article_category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_article_category&gt;
* &lt;"if_section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_section&gt; ... &lt;/"if_section":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_section&gt;
* &lt;"if_category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_category&gt; ... &lt;/"if_category":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_category&gt;
* &lt;"if_excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_excerpt&gt; ... &lt;/"if_excerpt":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_excerpt&gt;
* &lt;"if_custom_field":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_custom_field&gt; ... &lt;/"if_custom_field":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_custom_field&gt;

h3(sectionedit4#conditional_comments_tags). Conditional Comments Tags

* &lt;"if_comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments&gt; ... &lt;/"if_comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments&gt;
* &lt;"if_comments_allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments_allowed&gt; ... &lt;/"if_comments_allowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments_allowed&gt;
* &lt;"if_comments_disallowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments_disallowed&gt; ... &lt;/"if_comments_disallowed":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_comments_disallowed&gt;

h3(sectionedit5#conditional_search_tags). Conditional Search Tags

* &lt;"if_search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_search&gt; ... &lt;"else_":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:else:start&gt; ... &lt;/"if_search":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=txp:if_search&gt; double conditional tag to allow you to customise search results template and main page, even if both share the same template

