\n

h4(#overview). Overview

This is an alternate approach to using "Subversion":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=glossary#subversion with Windows. If you are not comfortable working in the command prompt, you are advised to use the "windows&#95;machine&#95;graphical&#95;user&#95;interface&#95;gui&#95;approach":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=windows_machine_graphical_user_interface_gui_approach.

There are two possible methods to this approach.

# Manual (with an additional sub-method to make this a little easier)
# Automated (by creating a shortcut that you can re-use)

Either method requires following the *Setup Instructions* first.

h4(#setup_instructions). Setup Instructions

# Download "wget":http://allserv.ugent.be/~bpuype/wget/#download for Windows.
# Save wget to the WINDOWS folder. Saving to this folder makes wget a LOT easier to use, and won't harm your Windows system by being there.
# Create a folder where you'd like to save Textpattern (e.g., a folder on your desktop named “_txp_”).

h4(#manual_instructions). Manual Instructions

# Follow _Start &gt; Run_. If you're on WinXP/Vista/Windows7 type *cmd*; otherwise, type *command* (WinXP doesn't seem to like long filenames in command). Click _OK_. You should now have your little command prompt window open.
# In the command prompt, type *cd* and then a space. Click on the folder you created in step 3, and drag it onto the prompt window. It should automatically bring over the folders location (in double-quotes on XP, shortname in 98). Click _Enter_. You should now be sitting in that folder.
# Type in

bc(code). wget -r -np -nH --cut-dirs=1 http://textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/development/4.x/


then hit _Enter_. (You'll see a whole bunch of text fly by, showing you what's being downloaded. Don't close the window, just wait until it finishes (which will depend on how fast your internet download speed is). You can minimize the window while that's happening.)

# When its all done downloading, type in *exit*, and then hit _Enter_.

Now if you peek in the folder you downloaded, you will notice you now have the latest (current) Textpattern package via SVN.

h5(#slightly_quicker_manual_method). Slightly Quicker Manual Method

If you have “Insert Mode” enabled for the command prompt, it's simple copy and paste (via the mouse, no keyboard shortcuts) instead of typing in the WGET command.

To enable this on WinXP:

# Open the command prompt as above.
# On the titlebar, right-click on the prompt's window title.
# Underneath the choices for moving the window, click on _Properties_
# Check the box next to _Insert Mode_.
# You'll get asked, _Apply Properties to Shortcut_. Choose _Modify shortcut that opened this window_ and click _OK_.

You are now able to paste into the command prompt, and may follow the directions above, using copy and paste instead of typing in the command.

It should be similar instructions for other versions of Windows.

h4(#automated_instructions). Automated Instructions

*Much thanks goes to "jayaqt":http://forum.textpattern.com/profile.php?id=930 at the Textpattern forum, for bringing the automated approach to the table.*

These instructions are confirmed to work on *Windows XP*. Please let someone here know if it works for other Windows versions too.

# Open up a text editor, like notepad. Add the following to it

bc(code). wget -r -np -nH --cut-dirs=1 http://textpattern.googlecode.com/svn/development/4.x/


# Save the file as *current-txp.cmd*
# Place it inside the “txp” folder
# Double-click on the file to start the download of the current version of Textpattern to that folder.
# Save this shortcut file to use for the next time you want to update.

Remember that it will download Textpattern to whatever folder this file sits in, and *will over-write* any existing Textpattern files residing within the same folder.

