\n"mininav_tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tutorials

h3(sectionedit1#overview). Overview

For whatever reason, it is often the case that someone has Textpattern installed in a subdirectory of a Web domain (i.e.,

bc. mysite.com/subdirectory


) and later decide they would like it to be located in the domain root (i.e.,

bc. mysite.com


). Moving a Textpattern installation from a subdirectory to the domain root is a relatively easy matter; you simply backup your resources (not required but encouraged), move the files, change paths in a few key places, and you should be good to go. Following is the process in more detail.

h3(sectionedit2#the_process). The Process

# Login to your Textpattern administration pages, navigate to the "basic_preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=basic_preferences panel, and change your Site URL entry to reflect the new root install location (should simply be a matter of removing the subdirectory from the path). You will also need to update the file upload path (Preferences &gt; Advanced Preferences). Again, it should simply be a matter of removing the subdirectory.

<ol>
<li><p>Next, you need to change your referencing paths to the database in the</p>
bc. config.php


<p>file. Navigate to</p>
bc. /textpattern/config.php


<p>, open the file and change your paths so they now reflect a link to the database with respect from the domain root instead of the former subdirectory (i.e., simply remove the subdirectory from the paths).</p></li>
</ol>

# Next, transfer your Textpattern folder/file structure to the domain root level. (This is not the time to be suddenly changing your site's structure. Leave the folder and file structure exactly as it is.) Don't forget the .htaccess file.

# Finally, if you have any *internal*, hard-coded links (e.g., image path links) in any of your page templates that are set as absolute paths, you will need to go to any such pages and change those links.

*Note:* you will not have to worry about this if your internal links are hard-coded as relative links and your site structure does not change, nor will you need to change absolute links that go to external content (i.e., different Web sites).

If all goes well, you should then be able to go to your Textpattern home page, or the site admin page, via the new domain root location with everything in working order.

This process is also valid for moving installations the other direction (from root to a subdirectory), or when working on a local installation via XAMPP, "MAMP":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=using_mamp_macintosh-apache-my_sql-php_for_macintosh, etc.

