\nStandards compliant, semantic markup, with hooks for CSS &amp; DOM scripting. Please post your suggestions on the forum for agreement. This is just to get the ball rolling.

*Note: Can anyone fix the code formatting on the wiki? anything wrapped in 'tt' tags comes out at about 6pt on OSX/Firefox*

h3(sectionedit1#naming_conventions). Naming conventions

Still to be agreed...

# wrapper
# header

body id=“area” class =“action”

# main
# footer

<hr />

h3(sectionedit2#repeated_snippets_present_on_every_admin_page). Repeated snippets present on every admin page:

* "header_navigation":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=header_navigation
* "footer":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=footer

<hr />

h3(sectionedit3#a_page_for_the_main_content_of_each_area_action_template). A page for the main content of each area/action template:

h5(#content). Content

* "categories":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=categories
* "write":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=write
* "articles":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=articles
* "Images":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=images_panel
* "files":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=files
* "links":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=links
* "comments":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=comments

h5(#presentation). Presentation

* "sections":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=sections
* "pages":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=pages
* "forms":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=forms
* "style":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=style

h5(#admin). Admin

* "diagnostics":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=diagnostics
* "preferences":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=preferences
* "users":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=users
* "visitor_logs":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=visitor_logs
* "plugins":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=plugins
* "import":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/doku.php?id=import

