\n"mininav_tutorials":/home/www/zendstudio/dokuwiki/bin/lib/exe/fetch.php?id=&media=mininav_tutorials

This guide will get you up and running with a custom Apache, MySQL, and PHP install on Leopard. Compared to "MAMP.app":http://mamp.info, a homegrown setup uses less resources because you're not using a separate application.

h4(#important). Important

<ul>
<li><p>Any line beginning with</p>
bc. $


<p>represents a shell prompt (/Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app). Type everything after the</p>
bc. $ 


<p>.</p></li>
<li>bc. ~/


<p>=</p>
bc. /Users/yourShortName

</li>
</ul>

h4(#mysql). MySQL

<ol>
<li>Download the "Mac OS X 10.5 package":http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.0.html#macosx-dmg.</li>
<li>Mount the image</li>
<li>Install all the pkgs and the MySQL.prefPane</li>
<li><p>Add the following to</p>
bc. ~/.bash_profile


<p>(create it if it doesn't exist)</p>
bc. export PATH="/usr/local/mysql/bin":$PATH

</li>
</ol>

Your MySQL user is “root” with no password.

h4(#php). PHP

The default PHP install included with Leopard lacks GD, so download and install "Entropy PHP":http://www.entropy.ch/software/macosx/php/#install.

h4(#apache). Apache

To setup the built-in web server, go to System Preferences &gt; Sharing and check “Enable Web Sharing.” You can view the default Apache page at

bc. http://localhost/~yourShortName/


.

h5(#enable_clean_urls). Enable clean URLs

Use the following for

bc. /etc/apache2/users/yourShortName.conf


:

bc. # http://localhost = http://localhost/~yourShortName
DocumentRoot /Users/yourShortName/Sites
<Directory "/Users/yourShortName/Sites/">
    Options Indexes MultiViews FollowSymLinks
    AllowOverride All
    Order allow,deny
    Allow from all
</Directory>


Restart Apache:

bc. $ sudo apachectl restart


h5(#virtual_hosts). Virtual hosts

<ol>
<li><p>Uncomment (remove the hash) this line in</p>
bc. /etc/apache2/httpd.conf


bc. #Include /private/etc/apache2/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf

</li>
<li><p>Append “txp.dev” to the 127.0.0.1 line in</p>
bc. /etc/hosts


<p>:</p>
bc. 127.0.0.1       localhost txp.dev

</li>
<li><p>Use the following for</p>
bc. /etc/apache2/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf

</li>
</ol>

NameVirtualHost &#42;

<pre class="code">
&lt;VirtualHost *&gt;
    DocumentRoot /Users/yourShortName/Sites/
    ServerName localhost
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;

&lt;VirtualHost *&gt;
    DocumentRoot /Users/yourShortName/Sites/projects/txp/site/
    ServerName txp.dev
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;
</pre>

Restart Apache and view "$":http://txp.dev in your browser.

