h1. The following PHP functions... are disabled [todo]

bq. The following PHP functions (which may be necessary to run Textpattern) are disabled on your server...

This means your hosting company or server administrator has disabled one or PHP functions. Usually they do this in an attempt to tighten security.

h2. Functions Used by Textpattern

The following functions are used by Textpattern.  If your diagnostics page reports any of these as disabled, your copy of Textpattern might work unreliably, or not at all.

|_. Name |_. Use |
| apache_get_modules | Helps determine whether clean urls could be used at setup, and for diagnostics info. |
| apache_get_version | Helps provide diagnostics info regarding clean urls. |
| parse_ini_file | Language features, even if English is used. |
| php_sapi_name | Determines whether PHP is running as an Apache module or CGI. Used for sending header information appropriate to the platform.|
| php_uname | Provides diagnostics info regarding the server's operating system. |
| set_time_limit | Makes sure PHP does not timeout before installation, updates (including language string changes), and file downloads can be completed. |

If one of these functions has been disabled on your server, you should ask your hosting service provider to enable it, or seek more suitable hosting for your Textpattern website, as there is no real reason to disable them.

h2. Functions *Not* Used by Textpattern

The following functions are *not* used by Textpattern 4.0.x releases.  If your diagnostics page reports one or more of these functions as disabled, you may safely ignore it, as they will not affect Textpattern operation in any way.

* apache_child_terminate
* apache_getenv
* apache_note
* apache_setenv
* chgrp
* chown
* close_log
* debugger_off
* debugger_on
* define_syslog_variables
* diskfreespace
* disk_total_space
* dl
* error_log
* escapeshellarg
* escapeshellcmd
* exec
* get_current_user
* getrusage
* highlight_file
* imagefilltoborder
* ini_alter
* ini_restore
* leak
* link
* listen
* mysql_pconnect
* openlog
* pack
* passthru
* pclose
* pfsockopen
* phpinfo
* popen
* proc_close
* proc_get_status
* proc_nice
* proc_open
* proc_terminate
* putenv
* readlink
* set_socket_blocking
* shell_exec
* show_source
* socket_... (i.e. socket_bind)
* symlink
* syslog
* system
* system_exec
* virtual
* wget

h2. Other Functions

If you have any listed in the message but not listed here, create a new topic in the Troubleshooting forum and post the full diagnostics message.